HELLO AND WELCOME TO
THE DECEMBER 12TH 2024 MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION, I AM
CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN.
>> THE TIME IS SEVEN 04 P.M.
LET'S START WITH SOME NOTES
ABOUT THE MEETING FORMAT AND
THEN WE'LL BEGIN THE MEETING.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN
PERSON OR BY TELEPHONE DURING
THE PUBLIC COMMENT AGENDA ITEM
OR DURING EACH PUBLIC HEARING
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON IN PERSON
INDIVIDUALS TO ADDRESS THE
BOARD, THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
TO SPEAK IF LISTENING BY PHONE
.
>> STAR NINE IF YOU ARE AN
APPLICANT VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK USE THE RAISE THE HAND
FEATURE FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO FOUR PUBLIC HEARINGS WE
WILL FIRST HEAR A REPORT FROM
PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL HAVE UP TO
FIVE MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE
THEIR PRESENTATION FOR REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
CITY STAFF WILL USE THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE CALLERS
PHONE NUMBER TO SELECT
TELEPHONE CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND.
>> CALLERS WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS NEXT
COMMISSIONERS MAY ASK QUESTIONS
OF THE APPLICANT.
>> THEN THE HEARING WILL BE
OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
THE COMMISSIONERS WILL THEN
MAKE A MOTION AND DISCUSS THE
APPLICATION.
>> THE APPROVAL FROM A MAJORITY
OF COMMISSIONERS PRESENT WILL
BE REQUIRED FOR A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS TO BE
GRANTED NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
ROLL CALL MISS THATCHER, WILL
YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
COMMISSIONER AND HERE
COMMISSIONER SMITH COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN, COMMISSIONER ROSS,
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE,
COMMISSIONER ORTNER, YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
>> GREAT.
>> OK, SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
SEE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO THIS
MONTH'S AGENDA?
>> OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTIONS.
>> THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO
D PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
MISSION FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON IN PERSON
INDIVIDUALS TO ADDRESS THE
BOARD, THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
TO SPEAK IF LISTENING BY PHONE
PRESS STAR NINE OR IF YOU
THROUGH THE WEBLINK USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
OK IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK?
>> YEAH GREAT.
SO THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO E ON
UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND THERE
NO THERE IS NO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS TONIGHT SO WE'LL GO TO
F HEARINGS.
WE'LL START WITH F ONE FIVE
THIRTY NINE S SEVENTH STREET
MAY WE PLEASE HAVE THE STAFF
REPORT.
YES ONE MOMENT I JUST PROMOTED
I HOPE THE PROPERTY OWNER
OH HE
DECLINED TO BE PROMOTED.
OK WELL I WILL GIVE THE
PRESENTATION THAT
THEY CAN
STILL HERE AND WATCH.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
>> OK THERE WE GO.
>> ALL RIGHT THIS L SHAPED
ITALIANATE VERNACULAR HOUSE
FIRST APPEARS IN PARK CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1896 AS THE
FRANCOIS HOLM FRANCOIS IS AN
INSTRUCTOR OF FRENCH AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FEATURES
A STONE FOUNDATION ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS AND A FULL WITH FRONT
PORCH.
THE CURRENT PORCH REPLACED A
BRICK PORCH WITH MORE SLENDER
BRICK COLUMNS THAT CAN BE SEEN
IN 1948.
PHOTOS AT THE ADL OLD
NEWS WEBSITE THE HOUSE HAS AN
INTERESTING 1980S HISTORY WAS A
CERTIFIED TWO UNIT RENTAL IN
1984 AND THEN IT BECAME A
DAYCARE PRESCHOOL.
>> THE MOVE THE DRIVEWAY WAS
FORMERLY ON THE NORTH OR LEFT
SIDE OF THE HOUSE BUT IT WAS
DEEMED TOO NARROW FOR A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE TO HAVE SO THEY
MOVED IT TO THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S WHERE IT USED TO BE AND
THIS IS THE GARAGE IT WE'LL BE
TALKING ABOUT IN A SECOND
SUBSEQUENTLY AN ADDITION WAS
BUILT ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
HERE MAKING WHAT USED TO BE THE
DRIVEWAY VERY NARROW SPACE SO
PROBABLY CAN'T EVER BE A LEGAL
DRIVEWAY AGAIN.
BUT THIS IS THE NEW DRIVEWAY
THAT'S 18 FEET WIDE.
MUCH MORE PAVEMENT ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
>> THE SEVENTH STREET LEARNING
PLACE OPERATED OUT OF THE HOUSE
AND IN 1987 PERMITS WERE ISSUED
TO CONVERT THE GARAGE TO A PLAY
HOUSE AND LATER THEY INSTALLED
ELECTRICAL SERVICE FOR SPACE
HEATERS.
THE CURRENT OWNER ONCE AGAIN
CERTIFIED THE HOUSE AS A RENTAL
IN 1998.
>> SO THIS IS ON THE EAST SIDE
OF S7 STREET JUST SOUTH OF THE
INTERSECTION OF LUTZ AND THE
APPLICANT ARE SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO REMOVE AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE IN THE BACKYARD AND
CONSTRUCT A GARAGE WITH AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF SURPRISING THINGS ABOUT THIS
GARAGE.
>> ONE IS THAT THIS DOOR IS
MUCH SHORTER THAN COMMISSIONER
STEVE BECAUSE IT WAS CONVERTED
TO A PLAYHOUSE FROM A GARAGE SO
THAT WAS THE KID SIZED DOOR.
>> THE OTHER SURPRISING THING
ABOUT IT IS THAT IT DOESN'T
HAVE A GABLE ROOF.
>> IT ONLY HAS A GABLE.
IT'S IT'S UNIQUE.
I'VE NEVER SEEN THAT BEFORE IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE ORIGINALLY
I'LL SHOW YOU IN A MINUTE THE
THE 1948 AERIAL PHOTO I THOUGHT
THAT IT WAS A GABLE ROOF WHERE
THEY HAD FOR SOME REASON TAKEN
OFF LEFT THIS FRONT WALL
STANDING AND PUT ON A LOW
SHED.
BUT WHEN WE WERE OUT THERE ON
THE SITE THIS LOOKS LIKE JUST A
COUPLE MORE PHOTOS OF IT.
>> IT REALLY LOOKS LIKE THE
HISTORIC GARAGE HAD THESE VERY
TYPICAL PARAPET WALLS MOVE SOME
STUFF OUT OF THE WAY HERE ON MY
SCREEN YOU CAN SEE THE BACK
HERE OF THE THE SLOPING ROOF.
>> SO I THINK IT WAS A SHED
ROOF GARAGE THAT FOR WHATEVER
REASON THEY ADDED THIS ON AS A
DECORATIVE FEATURE OR SOMETHING
,GOT RID OF THE VEHICLE DOORS,
PUT IN THE LITTLE KITTY DOOR
AND A COUPLE OF BIG WINDOWS.
IT DOES HAVE DRYWALL INSIDE.
USED TO HAVE A TILE FLOOR.
>> SO IT IS A YOU KNOW, AT ONE
POINT IT WAS A FINISHED
STRUCTURE.
IT'S NOT SUPER FINISHED RIGHT
NOW THERE IS A BIG SKYLIGHT, A
BIG BUBBLE DOME SKYLIGHT THAT
YOU CAN'T SEE HERE ON THE ROOF
SEEMS TO HAVE HAD A LOT
OF LEAKING INTO THE INTERIOR.
>> LET'S SEE THIS PICTURE
OF THE BACK OF THE HOUSE IS
KIND OF INTERESTING.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE BACK PORCH
THAT USED TO MATCH THE ORIGINAL
FRONT PORCH WHERE I SAID THERE
WERE SLENDER BRICK COLUMNS.
SO I THINK THAT THESE ARE AN
ORIGINAL FEATURE OF THE HOUSE
THEY ENCLOSED AT SOME POINT AND
MY BEST BET IS THAT THIS TABLE
WITH THE TWO LITTLE WINDOWS
CONTINUED DOWN AND ENDED OVER
HERE SOMEWHERE.
THEN THEY PUT AN ADDITION ON
WITH ANOTHER CABLE THAT FACES
THE BACKYARD AND THEN THAT SIDE
ADDITION THAT'S IN THE FORMAL
FORMER DRIVEWAY AREA THAT I
SHOWED YOU A MINUTE AGO THAT
THE THE THE THE HOW HOUSE
EVOLVE IS ALWAYS VERY
FASCINATING.
>> THIS SLIDE IS HERE BECAUSE
IT IS IN THE BACKYARD.
THIS IS A HOUSE ON SIXTH
STREET.
I ONLY INCLUDE IT TO SHOW YOU
BECAUSE THE COMMISSION APPROVED
THIS LESS THAN A YEAR AGO AND
ONE OF THE COMMISSIONERS
DESIGNED IT AND THIS IS WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE FROM THE SEVENTH
STREET SIDE.
I THOUGHT IT WAS INTERESTING
BECAUSE WE RARELY LOOK AT WHAT
BUILDINGS WILL LOOK LIKE FROM
THE BACKYARD.
>> WE USUALLY THINK ABOUT THE
NEIGHBORS TO THE SIDES AND WHAT
IT LOOKED LIKE FROM THE STREET.
>> SO THIS ONE CAME OUT OK IN
MY OPINION.
>> HERE'S A CURRENT AERIAL
PHOTO.
WE'VE GOT THE L SHAPED HOUSE.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL ONE STOREY
WING IN THE BACK.
THIS WAS AN ADDITION AND AND I
GUESS IT'S JUST ONE ADDITION
THAT HAD A GABLE SORT OF A SIDE
WING STICKING OUT THERE AND
HERE IS OUR GARAGE.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO REMOVE
THIS GARAGE AND REPLACE IT.
>> I WAS A LITTLE BIT SURPRISED
WHEN I DUG THROUGH PERMITS TO
LEARN THAT THIS GARAGE IS THE
SAME ONE THAT WAS THERE DURING
THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
>> BUT IT'S REALLY NOT A GARAGE
ANYMORE AND I'LL GET INTO THAT
MORE IN A MINUTE.
BUT LET'S SEE YOU YOU CAN'T
REALLY SEE THE BIG SKYLIGHT.
>> IT'S BACK HERE SOMEWHERE.
>> THIS IS THE NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN AREA.
IF YOU LOOK WITH A SQUINT YOU
CAN SEE THE L SHAPED BUILDING
THE ONE STOREY THING AND I WAS
KIND OF THROWN BY THIS
SHADOWLINE HERE WHICH YOU DON'T
USUALLY GET ON A FLAT ROOF ON
THESE AERIAL PHOTOS YOU CAN SEE
THIS ONE IS VERY CLEARLY A
GABLED PITCHED ROOF BUT THIS
ONE'S A LITTLE BIT LESS
CONCLUSIVE.
SO WHETHER IT HAD A GABLED ROOF
AND THEY TOOK OFF AND MADE IT
SLANTED OR WHETHER IT HAD A LOW
SLOPED ROOF THEY PUT THAT
DECORATIVE FEATURE ON PROBABLY
THE LADDER NOT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT LIKE I SEE THE TOP OF A
PARAPET WALL ON THE NORTH SIDE
THERE.
>> YEAH, RIGHT.
YEAH, YEAH.
AND ALSO YOU DON'T SEE A SHADOW
OF A GABLE, RIGHT?
>> YEAH IT'S STRAIGHT.
OH YOU'RE RIGHT.
OH THERE'S THE SMOKING GUN.
YEAH THAT'S IT.
>> NO CABLE THIS IS THE WRONG
SLIDE THIS GOES WITH SOMETHING
ELSE OK GETTING INTO THE
APPLICATION AND ATTACHMENTS
THIS IS A THIS IS A GOOD
ILLUSTRATION THAT'S PART OF THE
SUBMISSION PACKET THAT SHOWS
THE CURRENT GARAGE.
IT'S GOT A LITTLE THING BEHIND
IT BACK HERE BUT THERE ARE A
LOT OF OUTBUILDINGS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF REALLY
BIG ONES HERE AND HERE.
THIS IS A TWO CAR GARAGE.
THESE ARE MORE TRADITIONALLY
SIZED AND NOW WE'VE GOT THE NEW
ONE BACK HERE TOO.
BUT JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT
THAT THERE ARE A LOT
OF OUTBUILDINGS AND THESE ARE
THESE ARE THESE ARE FULL SIZE
ORIGINAL PLIGHTED LOTS.
THEY'RE THIS ONE HAS BEEN
DIVIDED IN TWO.
>> BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S
THE FULL DEPTH AND EVERYTHING
VERY WIDE.
>> SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO BUILD
A LARGE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE IN
THE BACKYARD THAT WOULD HAVE A
GARAGE ON THE GROUND FLOOR AND
AN APARTMENT ON THE UPPER FLOOR
.
>> THEY'VE DESIGNED IT TO TO
COMPLY WITH ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNIT REQUIREMENTS.
>> THE EXISTING DRIVEWAY WOULD
STAY AND THE THE THE WIDER AND
DEEPER BUILDING WOULD HAVE CARS
PULL IN FROM THE SIDE STAIRS UP
TO THE SECOND FLOOR.
YOU WOULD BE UNDER UNDER THE
PORCH ROOF HERE GOING IN THIS
ALL MAKE MUCH MORE SENSE IN A
MINUTE BUT THERE'S A THERE'S A
SORT OF A COLONNADE THAT WRAPS
AROUND TWO SIDES SO IT MAKES
THIS FOOTPRINT APPEAR LARGER.
>> SO JUST STICK TO THE HATCHED
AREA AND YOU'LL SEE THAT THE
WIDTH OF THE NEW ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE IS PRETTY COMPARABLE
TO THE WIDTH OF THE EXISTING
HOUSE ON THE BACK.
>> THEY HAVE MOVED IT OVER FROM
WHERE THE GARAGE THE ORIGINAL
GARAGES ARE NOW SITTING SO IT'S
A FEW MORE FEET OFF OF THE
PROPERTY LINE THAT PUTS IT
PRETTY MUCH IN LINE OR NEARLY
IN LINE WITH THIS SIDE BUMP OUT
ON THE HOUSE AND SAME THING ON
THIS SIDE.
IT COMES WITHIN A FEW FEET
OF OF THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE.
>> SO HERE'S THE DESIGN.
>> IT HAS A HIP ROOF AND
HORIZONTAL WINDOWS LAPPE SIDING
AND THEN THIS THIS COLONNADE
THAT I MENTIONED WRAPPING
AROUND THE STAIRS GO UP TO A
SORT OF A COVERED PORCH THAT'S
INSET UNDER THE HIP ROOF.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DESIGN
ELEMENTS, A LOT MORE THAN WE
SOMETIMES SEE ON GARAGES.
>> IT'S GOT THESE LITTLE
DECORATIVE THEY'RE SORT
OF CORBELS SORT OF RAFTER TILES
IN THE EAVES.
>> IT'S GOT SOME SEVERAL LIGHT
FIXTURES, PERSON DOORS AND A
DOUBLE AND A SINGLE GARAGE DOOR
.
HERE WE ARE FROM THE GARAGE
SIDE.
>> THE THE APARTMENT UPSTAIRS
DOESN'T
EXTEND ALL THE WAY TO
THE BACK OF THE STRUCTURE.
SO THIS IS A LITTLE ONE STOREY
BIT BEHIND THE TWO STOREY PART
THAT HAS THE APARTMENT IN IT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE GARAGE SAYS ON THESE
DRAWINGS THAT IT IS 872 SQUARE
FEET.
>> THIS IS REALLY BIG FOR AN
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
>> IT'S IT'S AS BIG AS MANY OLD
WEST SIDE HOUSES, ORIGINAL
FOOTPRINTS.
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT EASIER TO
READ.
>> THIRTY ONE AND A HALF BY
TWENTY FOUR FEET WE THE TWENTY
FOUR FEET I THINK I'M OK WITH
BECAUSE THAT'S THE WIDTH THAT
WE GENERALLY TOP OUT TO CAR
GARAGES AT LIKE TWENTY I TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR BY TWENTY FOUR BUT
THIS GOES BACK MUCH FARTHER TO
THIRTY ONE FEET SIX INCHES
QUITE FRANKLY I'M KIND OF OK
WITH THAT BECAUSE IT'S JUST
USING UP MORE OF THE DEPTH
OF THE BACKYARD.
>> IF YOU THINK ABOUT HOW MANY
GARAGES WE HAVE IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE WHERE THERE'S SORT OF A
DEAD SPACE BEHIND THE GARAGE
WHERE YOU KEEP YOUR TRASH CANS
IN YOUR CANOE AND DUMP YOUR YOU
KNOW YOUR OLD TRASH AND YOUR
FIREWOOD AND STUFF, THIS THIS
MAKES BETTER USE OF THAT AND
PUSHES IT CLOSER TO THE REAR
LINE.
>> SO THAT PART I'M REALLY OK
WITH HERE WE HAVE A ROOF PLAN
THESE WON'T SEE THIS ON THE
LEFT.
THIS IS A FIRST FLOOR ROOF ON
THAT COLONNADE AND THIS IS A
FIRST FLOOR ROOF THEY'RE
LABELED LOWER ROOF AND THIS IS
ALSO FOR FOR A ROOF BUT IT HAS
A BUILDING UNDERNEATH INSTEAD
OF JUST A WALKWAY LIVING AREA
TWO SMALL BEDROOMS, LIVING
ROOM, KITCHEN, BATH, VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
>> THIS IS IT'S EIGHT HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET WHICH IS THE
MAXIMUM SIZE FOR ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS.
>> IF YOU ADD UP THE DIFFERENT
ROOMS IT COMES IN CLOSER TO
SEVEN HUNDRED FEET.
>> SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT'S GOING
ON WITH THAT AND ALSO IT'S A
LITTLE BIT SMALLER THAN THE
EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
GARAGE SO SEVEN HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET IS PROBABLY A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO THE ACTUAL SIZE
OF THE UPSTAIRS.
>> OK HERE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS I WILL HAVE TO LOOK AT
MY NOTES.
>> DO YOU FIND MATERIALS FOR
CITING IS SEMANTICIST LAPPE
WINDOWS ARE ANDERSON ONE
HUNDRED SERIES MADE OF FIBER
COMPOSITE MATERIAL EXTERIOR OR
MATERIALS AREN'T SPECIFIED BUT
WOOD FIBERGLASS OR STEEL WOULD
ALL BE APPROPRIATE.
THE DESIGN OF THE DOORS IS IS
FINE.
IT'S THREE LIGHTS OVER PANEL
I'M SORRY A THREE LIGHT SINGLE
WINDOW OVER PANELS AND THE
GARAGE DOORS HAVE THESE SIX
LIGHTS OVER PANELS COLUMNS
SUPPORTING THE GALLERY ARE
EIGHT INCHES BY EIGHT INCHES.
THEY ALSO HAVE PANELS.
>> SO THIS IS THIS IS REALLY
NOT HERE.
>> LET ME JUST GO THROUGH THE
REST OF THEM.
THERE'S THE THERE'S DESIGN
OF THE DOOR.
>> IT'S IT'S WHEN YOU PUT THIS
BAR ACROSS THE BOTTOM IT MAKES
IT A SORT OF A MIMICKING
HISTORIC DOOR BUT IT'S IT'S OK
BECAUSE IT'S IT'S IT'S NOT IT'S
THE BUILDING IS IS SUCH AN
ECLECTIC DESIGN THAT NO ONE'S
GOING TO MISTAKE IT FOR AN 18
NIOS STRUCTURE IF IT HAS AN
1890 STYLE DOOR NOR A
TELEVISION VERY SIMPLE AND
PLAIN.
THIS IS THE BACK A COUPLE
OF RENDERINGS OF WHAT IT WOULD
LOOK LIKE
.
>> SO I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES AND THE
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARDS
AND THEN COME BACK UP AND ADD A
COUPLE MORE COMMENTS SO THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR DEEMS
THAT BEST APPLY OUR NUMBER TWO
WHICH SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION FEATURES IN
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
>> NO.9 AS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEWARK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
>> NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER TO REMOVE
MOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT WOULD BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIORS GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IT'S RECOMMENDED
TO DESIGN NEW EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC BUILDINGS
OR ADJACENT NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE SITE
WHICH PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OUR BUILDINGS LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACE.
>> IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN, PRESERVE
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES AS
WELL AS FEATURES OF THE SITE
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
ITS OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
ALSO DESIGNING AND CONSTRUCTION
CONSTRUCT A NEW FEATURE OF A
SITE WHEN THE HISTORIC FEATURE
IS COMPLETELY MISSING OR BY A
NEW DESIGN THAT IS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING AND NOT
RECOMMENDED TO INTRODUCE NEW
CONSTRUCTION ONTO A BUILDING
SITE WHICH IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF SIZE
SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS, COLOR
AND TEXTURE OR WHICH DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS ON THE
SITE NOT RECOMMENDED AS
REMOVING A RADICALLY CHANGING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES OR
SITE FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SITE SO THAT AS
A RESULT THE CHARACTERS
DIMINISHED FROM DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING NOT
RECOMMENDED AS INTRODUCING NEW
CONSTRUCTION THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING FROM THE END OF OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN THE
HISTORICAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE ALSO TO LOCATE
SHEDS AND GARAGES AT THE REAR
YARD AND TO USE EXTERIOR WALL
AND ROOF MATERIALS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH HISTORIC
MATERIALS ON THE MAIN STRUCTURE
AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IT IS APPROPRIATE TO USE A
ROOF SHAPE AND PITCH THAT
REPLICATES THE SHAPE AND PITCH
OF THE ROOF OF THE MAIN
STRUCTURE.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO USE
WINDOWS AND DOORS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE IN PROPORTION AND
STYLE TO THE MAIN STRUCTURE AND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
WHICH IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE
.
>> IT'S ALSO NOT APPROPRIATE TO
DESIGN A GARAGE THAT IS TALLER
OR LARGER THAN THE MAIN HOUSE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
LET ME MOVE BACK UP TO OUR
RENDERINGS SO THE DESIGN HAS A
LOT OF HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS TO
IT THE WINDOWS, THE THE
WRAPAROUND ROOFS, THE THE LOW
HIP ROOF ON THE TOP.
>> SO THE DESIGN GUIDELINES DO
TALK ABOUT MIMICKING THE WINDOW
AND ROOF SHAPES OF THE HISTORIC
BUILDING THAT'S ON THE SITE.
WHAT WE END UP WITH EVERY TIME
AND YOU'VE ALL SEEN IT IS A BOX
WITH A FALSE FRONT GABLE AND
AND VERTICAL WINDOWS.
>> YOU COULD DO THAT WITH THIS
BOX BUT REALLY I THINK THAT
USING A HIP ROOF INSTEAD OF A
FAUX PITCHED ROOF LIKE THAT IS
GOING TO MAKE IT EVEN LOWER AND
I REALLY DO APPLAUD THEM FOR
PUTTING AN ENTIRE TWO BEDROOM
APARTMENT UPSTAIRS.
YOU KNOW, THIS ISN'T THIS ISN'T
A RUMPUS ROOM FOR THE KIDS.
THIS IS REAL LIVING SPACE THAT
SOMEBODY COULD YOU KNOW, COULD
COULD COULD STAY IN FOR A WHILE
AND REALLY USE.
I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER SEEN A
THREE CAR GARAGE PROPOSED IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT EXCEPT
EXCEPT TANDEM ONES WERE THERE
IN FRONT OF EACH OTHER BUT
AGAIN WE'VE ALREADY GOT THE
EXISTING DRIVEWAY THERE AND
PULLING IN FROM A SIDE LOAD
MAKES SENSE AND IN THAT CASE I
DON'T THINK IT MAKES A BIGGER
IMPACT HISTORICALLY TO MAKE THE
BUILDING FIVE FEET OR EVEN TEN
FEET OR FIFTEEN FEET SHORTER
JUST FOR THE SAKE OF MAKING IT
A CUBE INSTEAD OF A DEEPER
RECTANGLE.
THE DESIGN COMPATABILITY I CAN
THINK OF PROS AND CONS FOR I
THINK THAT MY BIGGEST CONCERN
ABOUT WHETHER IT MEETS THE
STANDARDS GUIDELINES ARE DESIGN
ELEMENTS LIKE THIS BIG
WRAPAROUND GALLERY.
I THINK IT MAKES THE BUILDING
LOOK A LOT BIGGER THAN IT WOULD
IF AT LEAST THIS SIDE HAD, YOU
KNOW, A SMALLER ATTACHED TO THE
WALL OVERHANG INSTEAD
OF SOMETHING THAT YOU HAVE TO
ACTUALLY MANEUVER AROUND WITH
YOUR VEHICLE AND THE SIDE I
DON'T THINK IS SO BAD BECAUSE
IT'S VERY USABLE AND IT'S IN
IT'S IT'S NOT GOING TO MAKE THE
BUILDING LOOK ANY BIGGER FROM
THE STREET BECAUSE IT'S IT'S
ALIGNED THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING ALSO GREAT FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE UPSTAIRS TO
HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE SHELTER
DOWN HERE WHEN THEY'RE CARRYING
THEIR GROCERIES UP.
SO SO DESIGN WISE IT'S IT'S
IT'S A STRETCH.
BUT REMEMBER THAT THE THE ROLE
OF THE ATTACK IS NOT TO DECIDE
WHETHER OR NOT THEY LIKE IT.
IT'S DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT IT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND BY A SLIM
MARGIN I STAFF AT LEAST BELIEVE
THAT THAT IT IS COMPATIBLE
THOUGH THERE ARE PROBABLY SOME
SMALL THINGS THAT COULD BE MADE
ON TO MAKE IT MORE COMPATIBLE
LIKE REMOVING THIS COLONNADE ON
THIS SIDE.
UH, AND I SHOULD I SHOULD BACK
UP TO SAY THAT I ALSO BELIEVE
THAT
THE CHANGES THAT HAVE BEEN
DONE TO THE FORMER GARAGE LIKE
ADDING THAT GABLE GETTING RID
OF THE CAR DOORS, PUTTING IN
ANOTHER PERSON OR PUTTING IN A
COUPLE OF WINDOWS, PUTTING IN
DRYWALL, ELECTRICITY,
EVERYTHING ELSE AND AND AND
EVEN IF SOMEBODY WANTED TO
REVERSE ALL THAT WORK, YOU
STILL COULDN'T USE IT AS A
GARAGE BECAUSE YOU CAN NO
LONGER PUT A DRIVEWAY AND I
THINK THE GARAGE IS A STRUCTURE
HAS LOST ITS HISTORIC
INTEGRITY.
OK, I THINK THAT THAT IS IT FOR
THE STAFF REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> WELL, COMMISSIONERS FORTNER
AND KAPLAN WERE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE SO WILL YOU PLEASE
GIVE ME GIVE US YOUR YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION?
SURE.
I THINK THE TWO THINGS THAT
REALLY STUCK OUT TO ME ON SITE
WERE FIRST OF ALL THE THE
OVERALL SIZE OF THE YARD, THE
THE PARCEL ITSELF IS MORE THAN
BIG ENOUGH TO ACCOMMODATE WHAT
WE'RE PROPOSING HERE.
IT DID NOT FEEL LIKE IT WAS
SQUEEZED INTO ANYTHING.
>> THERE WAS THERE WAS A BIT
OF SPACE FOR THAT AND ECHOING
WHAT JILL HAS JUST SAID, IT DID
NOT FEEL TO ME LIKE THERE WAS
ENOUGH LEFT OF THE ORIGINAL
GARAGE FOR IT TO BE SOMETHING
TO TRY TO PROTECT IT GOING
THROUGH A NUMBER OF CHANGES
ALREADY AND SOME OF THEM WORKED
GREAT SO I DON'T KNOW THAT
THERE IS ANYTHING THAT REALLY
COMPELLED ME TO FEEL LIKE WE
SHOULD BE REALLY FIGHTING FOR
WHAT'S THERE.
THOSE WERE I MEAN MAIN THINGS I
DREW FROM IT COMMISSIONER FOR
ANYTHING TO ADD.
>> YEAH, OK.
YOU AGREE WITH EVERYTHING
YOU'VE HEARD THUS FAR.
>> OK, VERY GOOD THEN LET'S
MOVE ON.
>> I'LL ASK THE APPLICANT TO
COME FORWARD AT THIS TIME OR I
GUESS THERE WE ESTABLISHED
AROUND ZOOM'S SO HOW CAN WE
PROMOTE YES SO PLEASE ON
UNMUTED AND TURN ON YOUR VIDEO
PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE
UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK AND
WE'D LIKE TO KNOW IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT OR REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE COMING IN?
YES.
OK, YES.
BLAIR WILL BE JOINING US OK.
>> OH THERE WE GO.
EITHER.
>> HEY HOW'S IT GOING?
GOOD.
HOW ARE YOU DOING ON THIS
COMPUTER SO A LITTLE BIT LIKE
OK YOU'RE COMING IN VERY, VERY
CLEAR SO THAT'S GOOD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND THEN
YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES AND
JUST LET US KNOW IF YOU GOT
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT OR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT THAT YOU'VE HEARD SO
FAR.
>> I'M SURE I'M BLAIR DUDLEY.
I'M THE PROPERTY OWNER.
OUR ADDRESS ISN'T FIVE THIRTY
NINE.
WE LIVE JUST DOWN THE STREET.
WE ACTUALLY USED TO LIVE IN
THAT HOUSE BUT WE LIVE AT
THIRTEEN TEN LUTTS AVENUE.
THIS IS MY ARCHITECT AND GOOD
FRIEND JEREMY ZIGGLER.
>> HE'S THE ONE THAT DID ALL
THE WORK JUST HELPING HIM WITH
HIS PROPERTY RIGHT HERE AND I
THINK WE WE FOUND SOME GOOD
SOLUTIONS IN GENERAL.
THANK YOU FOR THAT WAS A VERY
THOROUGH REPORT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
WORK YOU PUT INTO THAT.
WHAT WE TRIED TO DO WITH THIS
IS JUST KEEP AS LOW A PROFILE
AS WE COULD WITH THE DESIGN AND
THAT'S REALLY WHY WE CHOSE THE
HIP ROOFS WE REALLY FOUND AS WE
WERE GOING THROUGH THE DESIGN
PROCESS WE JUST COULDN'T GET A
LOT OF SPACE FOR THE ACCESSORY
DWELLING WHEN WE WERE TRYING TO
MATCH THE PITCH TO THE ROOF BUT
WE REALLY DID GO THAT ROUTE
FIRST AND TRY TO TRY TO DO THAT
AND THIS IS WHERE WE KIND
OF LANDED WITH TRYING TO HIT AS
MANY MARKS AS WE COULD WITH AND
ACCOMPLISH WHAT WE'RE NEED SOME
PROPERTY.
>> RIGHT, RIGHT.
AND I APPRECIATE THE I DIDN'T
REALLY HAVE A THOROUGH
UNDERSTANDING BUT NOW I HAVE A
GOOD APPRECIATION HAVING THE
POWER THAT'S IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE UNDERSTANDING NOW THAT
YOUR PROCESS AND APPRECIATING
THE THE NEED TO KEEP THE
INTEGRITY FOR WHAT'S THERE
EXISTING AND LIKE YOU SAID, THE
OLD GARAGE HAS BEEN CHANGED AND
MODIFIED THROUGH THE YEARS WELL
BEFORE WE EVEN PURCHASED THE
HOUSE BACK IN THE 90S AND IT NO
LONGER TAKES ON THE SHAPE OR
STRUCTURE OR IN ANY KIND
OF INTEGRITY RESEMBLING
ANYTHING REMOTELY CLOSE TO WHAT
IT WAS BEFORE AS A GARAGE SALE
.
I THINK PUTTING SOMETHING THERE
THAT'S AS BEAUTIFUL AS JEREMY
CREATED THAT WE CAN UTILIZE AS
A NEW SPACE AND LOOKING AT THAT
AERIAL PHOTO AS WELL THAT YOU
SHOWED OF THE PROPERTIES NEARBY
THE HOUSE JUST TO THE NORTH IT
HAS A VERY, VERY SIGNIFICANT
GARAGE AS DOES A COUPLE
OF HOUSES DOWN AS WELL AS YET
ONE THAT'S RIGHT ON THE CORNER
OF MADISON AND I'M MISTAKEN.
SO I THINK THIS LIKE YOU SAID,
THE PROPERTY ITSELF IS PRETTY
DEEP.
IT'S GOT A BIG YARD AND
CERTAINLY CAN ACCOMMODATE THE
SIZE OF WHAT WE'RE PUTTING
SOMETHING THERE BUT I DON'T
THINK IT IS GOING TO DETRACT
FROM THE THE DRIVING BY THE
HOUSE AND MAKING ANY KIND
OF ASSUMPTIONS ARE SAYING WOW,
THEY REALLY JUST REALLY SCREWED
THIS UP BY PUTTING SOMETHING
BACK THERE.
VERY GOOD.
OK, WELL THANK YOU BOTH FOR
YOUR COMMENTS.
>> JUST HOLD TIGHT.
WE WE'RE NOW GOING TO ASK SOME
QUESTIONS IF WE HAVE ANY SO
I'LL JUST ASK THE COMMISSION
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR BLAIR AND JEREMY?
>> OK, I HAD A COUPLE I BELIEVE
SO LET ME JUST GET TO MY NOTES
HERE.
OK, SO I DID NOT SEE ANY
LANDSCAPING PLANS.
>> SO REALLY WHAT I WAS CURIOUS
ABOUT THOUGH WAS I SEE SOME
PRETTY TALL EVERGREEN TREES
RIGHT ON THE BACK PROPERTY LINE
I KNOW YOU'RE BUILDING MAYBE
IT'S SEVEN FEET AWAY FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE OR SOMETHING THAT
CAN YOU LET US KNOW WHAT THE
PLAN IS FOR THOSE TREES
SPECIFICALLY AND THEN ANYTHING
ELSE ABOUT LANDSCAPING YOU HAVE
PLANNED?
>> WE'D BE CURIOUS.
>> YEAH.
YOU WANT TO CHIME IN ON WHAT A
GOOD BIT OF WATER MITIGATION SO
WE'VE GOT THE RAIN GARDEN
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE SO THAT'LL HELP KIND
OF HIDE THAT FROM THE STREET AS
WELL.
AND IN TERMS OF THE THE TREES
THAT ARE BEHIND THE GARAGE
CURRENTLY, WANT TO TAKE A LOOK
AND SEE JUST HOW CLOSE THEY ARE
TO THE PROPERTY LINE IN THE
GARAGE.
>> BUT IF WE CAN KEEP THOSE WE
WILL I DON'T THINK WE'RE TRYING
TO GET RID OF MORE THAN MORE
THAN WE NEED TO HEAR.
>> YEAH, I'M I'M A BIG FAN
OF KEEPING THE THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT IS CLOSE TO IT
CLOSE THE WAY IT IS IS AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF TREES THAT
ARE REALLY CLOSE TO THE FENCE
AND IF WE CAN IF WE'RE GOING TO
ENCROACH ON THOSE THOSE MIGHT
HAVE TO GO.
BUT THE OTHERS WE'RE CERTAINLY
GOING TO STICK AROUND.
I'M NOT PLANNING ON TAKE
ANYTHING OUT THAT DOESN'T NEED
TO UNNECESSARILY COME OUT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AND THEN LOOK AT THIS
PICTURE THAT I THINK JILL HAS
UP THERE ALL THIS ALL THIS
DECORATIVE SHRUBBERY AND STUFF
LIKE THAT IS STUFF THAT I'VE
PUT IN TO KIND OF BEAUTIFY THE
HOUSE THAT THAT YOU SEE
CURRENTLY.
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS KIND OF A
REALLY IT WAS A BAD DAY I THINK
I REMEMBER THE DAY YOU GUYS THE
OTHER NIGHT WHEN IT CAME OUT
THERE WAS RAIN AND IT WAS NASTY
BUT YEAH.
SO DURING THE SUMMER THIS
REALLY LOOKS PRETTY.
THERE'S A LOT OF SOME REALLY
NICE WIGGLES THERE AND SOME YOU
KNOW, A LOT OF OTHER PLANTS
THAT ARE THAT ARE VERY
DECORATIVE AND STUFF.
SO I PLAN ON PUTTING THINGS IN
THERE THAT WILL KIND OF MIMIC
THAT.
>> OK, ALSO ON THE SITE I HAVE
A QUESTION ABOUT THE DRIVEWAY.
>> I SEE THAT THE DRIVEWAY FROM
HERE IT GOES BACK VERY DEEP
INTO THE YARD AND I'M WONDERING
CAN YOU GIVE US AN ESTIMATE
OF LIKE HOW MANY WILL YOU HAVE
TO ADD TO THE DRIVEWAY FOR THIS
NEW DESIGN AND IF SO, DO YOU
HAVE A GUESS IS LIKE HOW MANY
SQUARE FEET OF DRIVEWAY YOU
WOULD NEED TO ADD?
THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
IT DOES GO QUITE A WAYS BACK.
WE WILL NEED TO ADD A LITTLE
BIT AT THE END JUST FOR THE
TURNAROUND AND THAT'S I THINK
WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE TRYING TO PUT
THE RAIN GARDEN IN AND REALLY
MAKE SURE THAT WE DO MAKE UP
FOR THAT IF I GUESS MY MY MY
NEXT QUESTION MAYBE NEXT YEAR
IS IF IF YOU THOUGHT THERE WAS
SOMETHING YOU'D LIKE TO SEE
THERE I DON'T KNOW MEAN BLAIR
HAVEN'T NECESSARILY TALKED
ABOUT PERMEABLE PAVERS OR
ANYTHING BUT I'M NOT SURE IF
THAT'S WHAT YOUR YOU MIGHT BE
LEADING US TO HERE BUT WE COULD
CERTAINLY MAYBE EVEN DO THAT
ALONG THE EDGE OF THE DRIVEWAY
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT IF
THAT'S IF THAT'S SOMETHING
YOU'RE YOU'RE SUGGESTING JUST
TRYING TO GET A HANDLE ON WHAT
THE PROPOSAL IS.
SO I'M NOT TRYING TO SUGGEST
ANYTHING.
>> I'M JUST I GUESS I'D LIKE
WHAT I VISUALIZE IN MY HEAD IS
WHAT'S DRAWN HERE WHICH IS
YEAH.
PRETTY MUCH PAVEMENT ALL THE
WAY BACK TO THE PROPERTY LINE.
I DIDN'T REALLY SEE I GUESS I
DIDN'T FOCUS IT ON THIS DRAWING
HERE SO MUCH THAT YEAH.
THAT IT GOES ALL THE WAY BACK
TO THE PROPERTY LINE LOOKING AT
THE PHOTO.
YEAH.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S
ANOTHER TEN FEET OR SO OF OF
PAVING.
>> YEAH.
AND SO IS THERE IS THERE A
MATERIAL PROPOSED.
NO NO OK NO.
>> ALL RIGHT SO WE'LL BUT WE
CAN
DISCUSS THAT AND MAYBE
WE'LL WE'LL HAVE A FOLLOW UP
QUESTION FOR YOU ON THAT POINT
BUT WE CAN MOVE ON AND THEN
JUST LAST QUESTION IS I THINK I
SAW SOMETHING IN THE PACKET
LIKE THE HEIGHT THE RIDGE
HEIGHT IS AROUND TWENTY THREE
FEET OF THE AIDO AND DO YOU
HAPPEN TO KNOW THE HEIGHT LIKE
THE THE HIGHEST HEIGHT OF THE
RIDGE OF THE HOUSE?
IT IS IT IS UNDERNEATH THAT
EACH FOUR IS EIGHT FEET AND
IT'S ABOUT THIRTY SIX INCHES
ABOVE THE GROUND WITH A WITH
TEN TEN INCHES BETWEEN.
>> SO IF IN QUICK MATH TERM IT
WOULD BE SIXTEEN SEVENTEEN
THAT'S TWENTY TWENTY JUST TO
THE CEILING IN THE SECOND FLOOR
PLUS THE GABLE IN THE HOUSE
IT'S I THINK WE'VE GOT AN EIGHT
TWELVE PITCH ON THE HOUSE SO
YOU COULD YEAH YOU GOT TO GO
BACK ONE WITH WHERE THE CAR WAS
IN THE DRIVEWAY.
TWENTY TWO FOOT WHITE HOUSE
THAT'S KIND OF PUT US ALMOST
YEAH RIGHT SO WE'VE GOT ANOTHER
SEVEN FEET SO IT'S ABOUT TWENTY
SEVEN FEET.
>> SORRY THAT'S MY QUICK MATH
VERSION BUT UNDERSTAND I LIKE
THAT WITH DOING MATH BUT THAT
WAS GOOD OK SO WE'LL SAY TWENTY
SEVEN TWENTY EIGHT FEET FOR THE
HOUSE I THINK THAT'S USEFUL
INFORMATION BECAUSE I MEAN ONE
OF THE ONE OF THE STANDARDS
SAYS THAT THE YOU KNOW THE
ACCESSORIES STRUCTURE HAS TO BE
SHORTER THAN THE HOUSE SO
THAT'S HELPFUL.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR BEING WITH ME.
THERE IS MY MIND THOUGH THAT
WAS GREAT OK I BLAIRGOWRIE WE
HANG OUT WE MIGHT GET BACK TO
YOU IN A MOMENT BUT WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON.
>> OH DID THAT SPUR ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FROM THE OK SO THEN
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND SO I WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
FIVE THIRTY NINE S SEVENTH
STREET.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION.
>> SO NO ONE IS RAISING THEIR
HAND IN THE XOOM ROOM.
OK, GOOD TO KNOW AND I DON'T
SEE ANYONE APPROACHING THE
PODIUM SO WE CAN CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
>> WOULD A COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM?
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE THREE NINE
S 7TH STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE A
NONCONTRIBUTING ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE IN THE BACK YARD AND
CONSTRUCT A GARAGE WITH AN
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON THE
SECOND FLOOR AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY THOSE FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING GREAT IS A
SECOND ON THE MOTION.
>> WONDERFUL.
SO THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
.
>> SO IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON EMOTION?
I THINK THAT I GUESS BEFORE WE
GET INTO IT LIKE THERE'S
THERE'S SEVERAL THERE'S SEVERAL
DIFFERENT ISSUES TO DISCUSS I
THINK THAT WHETHER OR NOT THE
GARAGE IS CONTRIBUTING WE
SHOULD WE SHOULD HIT AND THEN
ALSO ANYTHING ABOUT THE
DRIVEWAY AND THEN JUST
BASICALLY THE COMPATIBILITY
OF THE NEW GARAGE.
>> SO I GUESS WE'LL JUST TRY TO
LOOK AT IT LIKE THAT.
>> AND DOES ANYONE HAVE
ANYTHING TO SAY ABOUT THE THE
CONTRIBUTING OR NOT
CONTRIBUTING OR DOES ANYONE
THINK THAT THE GARAGE IS
CONTRIBUTING AND WE SHOULD
SOMEHOW KEEP IT?
>> NO, I JUST STAFF REPORT
NAILED IT.
YEAH, I AGREE THEY'RE GOOD.
>> OK, SO THEN YOU KNOW WHAT I
SEE WHAT THE DRIVEWAY IS.
THIS IS A LOT OF PAVEMENT THERE
AND THEY WANT TO ADD A LITTLE
BIT MORE TO A LOT OF PAVEMENT.
>> YOU KNOW IF THIS WAS JUST
LIKE THERE WAS A TWO TRACK
DRIVEWAY AND THEN WE WERE GOING
FROM THAT TO THIS IT WOULD BE
KIND OF DIFFICULT TO SUPPORT I
THINK.
>> BUT DOES ANYONE SEE IT
DIFFERENTLY?
>> WE'RE THERE DOING SOMETHING
WITH THE DRIVEWAY THAT'S UNTOLD
.
I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, IF YOU
CAN TALK ABOUT MAYBE DOING, YOU
KNOW, GRAVEL SOMETHING THAT'S A
LITTLE LESS PERMANENT AND A
LITTLE BIT MORE PERMEABLE THAN
THAN THAN CONCRETE OR ASPHALT,
I THINK THAT THAT'S A YOU KNOW,
THAT'S A FINE SOLUTION.
I MEAN I THINK THERE'S AN AWFUL
LOT OF MIXED DRIVEWAYS ON THE
OLD WEST SIDE, YOU KNOW, THAT
ARE PART CONCRETE, PART GRAVEL.
YOU I THINK GOING TO PERVIOUS
PAVERS IS A BRIDGE LIKE I DON'T
KNOW THAT THERE'S ANY BENEFIT
IN DOING THAT.
YOU KNOW, IF GRAVEL WORKED THAT
THAT'D BE FINE WITH ME.
I SHARE YOUR CONCERN ABOUT AN
AWFUL LOT OF IMPERVIOUSNESS US
IN THAT BACK BACKYARD AND AND
HOW TO GET THAT STORMWATER INTO
THE RAIN GARDEN.
I MEAN I KNOW THAT'S NOT OUR
PURVIEW THAT SOMEBODY ELSE CAN
SOLVE THAT PROBLEM.
SO IF IF YOU KNOW, PAVING ALL
THE WAY BACK IS WHAT THEY WANT
TO DO, THEN I GUESS I WOULD SAY
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HASH
THAT OUT WITH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND YOU WHERE THAT
STORMWATER GOES.
RIGHT.
SO SO JILL, WHERE DO WE STAND
WITH THERE'S NO THERE'S NO
MATERIAL CALLED OUT IN THE
PACKET FOR THAT AND SO HOW WILL
THAT BE HANDLED ON THE PERMIT
SET AND EVERYTHING SO IF IT'S
JUST SHOWN AS PAVEMENT THAT
COULD BE ASPHALT OR CONCRETE OR
I MEAN THAT'S SORT OF THE
BASELINE IF THEY WANTED TO PUT
IN PERMEABLE PAVERS THAT WOULD
BE GREAT.
>> BUT WITHOUT SPECIFYING IT, I
THINK THAT YOU ASSUME THAT IT'S
ASPHALT.
>> YEAH.
AND ANYTHING BEYOND THAT IS
JUST, YOU KNOW, FROSTING, OK?
>> AND IT ACTUALLY DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE ANY OF US ARE REALLY SO
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT EXTRA BIT.
>> SO I THINK IT'S ON SITE.
IT'S A BIG WIDE AREA.
YEAH.
IT'S ALREADY THERE AND THEY'RE
GOING TO MAKE IT DEEPER.
YEAH.
OK, SO THAT SOUNDS ALL GOOD AND
THEN I GUESS WHATEVER COMES
THROUGH ON THE PERMITS SET IF
IT'S SOMETHING WELL IT'LL JUST
COME THROUGH AND STAFF WILL SEE
IT SO OK NOW WHAT.
OK SO WE'RE WE'RE THEN JUST
BASICALLY LEFT WITH THE
COMPATIBILITY OF THE NEW
STRUCTURE THAT'S BEING PROPOSED
.
IT'S I GUESS MY TAKE IS THERE
ARE I THINK WHAT'S REALLY
HELPING ME WORK THROUGH HOW HOW
BIG IT IS IS THAT THERE ARE
OTHER EXAMPLES VERY CLOSE BY ON
THE BLOCK OF OF ITEM YOU KNOW,
OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS THAT ARE
BASICALLY THE SAME SIZE.
IT TO ME IS IS RIGHT ON THE
EDGE.
>> BUT I THINK WITH THE WITH
THE HIP ROOF THAT IS HELPING
AND THEN ALSO YES, SOMETHING
ABOUT THAT THE THAT FIRST
STOREY OVERHANG I DON'T LIKE
HOW WIDE IT IS BUT IT ALSO IS
BREAKING UP THE HEIGHT SO IT
DOESN'T FEEL AS HIGH.
WHAT I REALLY WANT TO SEE IS IN
ELEVATION OF THE FULL SITE WITH
THE WITH AIDOO AND THE HOUSE
RIGHT NEXT TO IT AND OR
PERSPECTIVE YOU KNOW ANYTHING
TO KIND OF GET THE THE EXACTLY
WHAT THAT'S GOING TO LOOK LIKE
BECAUSE JUST WITHOUT SEEING A
DRAWING THEN YOU HAVE TO
IMAGINE IT AND THAT THAT'S
WHERE IT GETS DIFFICULT TO
REALLY KNOW YOU KNOW IS IT TOO
BIG OR NOT WITH OR WITHOUT?
>> WELL WHEN YOU JUST HAVE TO
KIND OF IMAGINE BUT SO DOES
ANYONE HAVE A DIFFERENT TAKE ON
THE COMPATIBILITY OF THE EU AND
WANT TO MAKE AN ARGUMENT THAT
IT'S NOT COMPATIBLE?
OK, WELL THEN I THINK WE SHOULD
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
>> THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST RECEIVE
ALL REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT AND THAT THE WORK IN
THE PERMITS MUST MATCH WHAT WAS
APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT MISSION.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
TAKE CARE.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU TOO.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO
ITEM F TWO FOUR OR SEVEN W
MOSLEY CAN WE PLEASE HAVE THE
STAFF REPORT?
>> CERTAINLY
.
>> FIRST ON W MOSLEY IS A ONE
AND A HALF STI A STORY SIDE
GABAL CRAFTSMAN BUILT IN
NINETEEN TWENTY THREE.
THE FIRST OWNER WAS OSCAR CHRIN
FIRST FLOOR FEATURES BRICK
CLADDING WITH A FULL WITH BRICK
FRONT PORCH WITH SQUARE BRICK
COLUMNS AND A SHED ROOF.
THE SECOND FLOOR HAS AN INSET
FRONT GABLE DORMER AND A REAR
GABLE DORMER SECOND FLOOR IS
CLAD IN WHITE ALUMINUM SIDING
WITH BEVELED CORNERS INSTALLED
OVER THE ORIGINAL STUCCO.
THE ORIGINAL CARDBOARD TRIM AND
RAFTER TAILS ARE PRESENT IN THE
EAVES A RED BRICK CHIMNEY IS A
PROMINENT FEATURE OF THE EAST
SIDE ELEVATION.
THE ORIGINAL WOOD WINDOWS HAVE
A SINGLE LIGHT BOTTOM SASH AND
THE TOP SASH OF A PERIMETER
WINDOWS STYLE MEANING IT HAS AN
INTERIOR BUTTON THAT FRAMES THE
WINDOW SEVERAL SINGLE SASH
WINDOWS LIKE THOSE FLANKING THE
CHIMNEY ALSO HAVE A PERIMETER
MOUNTAIN STYLE TOP SASH AND THE
PROPERTY AS AN ORIGINAL ONE AND
THREE QUARTER STOREY GARAGE
BARN TO THE
SOUTHWEST OF THE
HOUSE.
IT'S LOCATED ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF WEST MOSTLY BETWEEN SECOND
STREET AND THIRD STREET AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A SIX
HUNDRED AND EIGHTEEN SQUARE
FOOT ADDITION ON THE REAR
ELEVATION OF THE HOUSE AND A
LOW EIGHT FOOT BY TWENTY FOUR
FOOT DECK WITH NO GUARDRAILS
BEHIND THE ADDITION.
>> ALL RIGHT WALKING AROUND
THIS HOUSE WHICH IS REALLY VERY
LOVELY THESE CRAFTSMEN THIS IS
JUST THIS IS LIKE THE CLASSIC
CRAFTSMAN WITH THE DIFFERENT
STYLES OF GABLE'S AND THE
DIFFERENT MATERIALS ON THE
SECOND FLOOR FROM THE FIRST AND
THE WIDE FRONT PORCH.
>> THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
EXAMPLE OF THAT STYLE BACK HERE
AT THE DRIVEWAY YOU SEE WHAT
I'M CALLING THE GARAGE BARN IF
IF IT WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
TWENTY THREE THAT WAS A LITTLE
LATE FOR BARNES BUT IT'S GOT A
HEADER UP HERE SO THAT YOU
COULD PULL THE HAY UP SO I
DON'T KNOW MAYBE THEY HAD A
HORSE FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS
IT'S HARD TO SAY OR MAYBE THAT
WAS JUST A STORAGE FEATURE LEFT
OVER FROM EARLIER BARN DESIGNS
WALKING THROUGH THIS LITTLE
GATE HERE YOU GET TO THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE, YOU CAN SEE THAT
THERE IS A WIDE SECOND FLOOR
DORMER SHED DORMER IT IT'S
PRETTY MUCH FLUSH WITH THE
CORNER ON THE WEST SIDE BUT IT
DOESN'T GO AS FAR OVER ON THE
EAST SIDE.
>> THIS IS A LITTLE PORCH THAT
USED TO BE OPEN AND HAS BEEN
MODIFIED TO BE ENCLOSED AT SOME
POINT AND THERE'S A THERE'S A
DECK IN THE BACK RIGHT NOW IF
YOU GO UP A FEW STAIRS
ALONGSIDE THE THE GARAGE YOU'RE
IN A RAISED PORTION OF THE
BACKYARD YARD JUST TOOK A PHOTO
FROM THERE SO YOU GET A BETTER
SHOT, A BETTER VIEW OF THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE AND HOW THAT ROOF
IS TYING IN BACK THERE.
THIS IS KATIE, THE ARCHITECT.
>> SHE IS HOLDING A MEASURING
TAPE HERE THE BACK OF THE NEW
EDITION IS THREE BOARDS IN ON
THE EXISTING BACK PORCH WHICH
I'LL GO BACK TO AGAIN IN A
SECOND AND THIS IS THE DEPTH I
BELIEVE IT'S EIGHT FEET OF THE
NEW LOW PORCH JUST LIKE THIS
DECK THAT WOULD GO BEHIND THE
ADDITION AND JUST TIE IN THE
BACK OF THE STAIRS HERE YOU CAN
SEE THAT THE THE ADDITION
STOPPED SHORT OF THE GARAGE
WHICH I THINK IS IS IS HELPFUL
AND GOOD AND THIS IS THE
LOCATION OF THE CORNER.
>> SO THERE'S THERE'S PLENTY
OF ROOM BETWEEN THE TWO
STRUCTURES HERE.
>> THIS IS THE EAST SIDE OF THE
HOUSE WITH BIG BRICK FIREPLACE
LOOKING TOWARD MOSTLY STREET.
>> YOU CAN SEE THE NEIGHBORING
STRUCTURE THERE WHICH IS A
MODERN APARTMENT BUILDING.
>> AND HERE'S ANOTHER VIEW
OF THAT EAST SIDE JUST REALLY
GORGEOUS CRAFTSMAN FEATURES.
NO WORK IS PROPOSED ON THE
FRONT OR EITHER OF THE SIDES
OF THIS HOUSE.
>> THERE'S ONE MORE SHOT
LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY.
THERE'S A HUGE TREE BACK HERE
BUT IT'S IN THAT UPPER LEVEL
PART OF THE YARD SO IT WILL NOT
BE IMPACTED BY THIS WORK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO HERE'S THE SITE PLAN.
THIS IS THE POST NINETEEN FORTY
FIVE MUDROOM THAT WOULD COME
OFF OF THE BACK PROPOSED
EDITION IS A RECTANGLE OFF THE
BACK AND THE PROPOSED THAT GOES
BEYOND THAT
EXISTING FLOOR PLAN
PRETTY BASIC LAYOUT THIS WHOLE
BACK WALL WOULD COME OFF.
THERE ARE A FEW WINDOWS THERE
AND THE BACK DOOR THAT WOULD BE
LOST TO THE EXPANSION.
THIS IS THE UPSTAIRS SORRY THIS
GOT REALLY BIG FOR SOME REASON
THREE BEDROOMS RIGHT NOW THIS
IS A MUD ROOM THAT WOULD BE
REMOVED
.
>> THIS PORTION OF THE SHED
DORMER ON THE BACK WOULD BE
REMOVED AND THIS WILL MAKE MORE
SENSE IN A SECOND WHEN WE GET
TO THAT PART OF THE DRAWINGS.
>> SO NOW WE'VE GOT A NEW ROOM
IN THE BACK EXPANDED KITCHEN
DEN AREA.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE IS AN
INSET OF TEN INCHES ON BOTH
OF THE REAR CORNERS
UPSTAIRS.
>> IT HAS A SORT OF AN INSERT
GABLE FEATURE THAT YOU'LL SEE
IN THE ELEVATIONS IN A SACK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO HERE IS THE NEW ADDITION.
>> IT DOES HAVE HARDIE BOARD
HORIZONTAL PLANK SIDING AND THE
WINDOWS ARE A DESIGN THAT I DO
THINK IS COMPATIBLE WITH WITH A
HISTORIC WINDOWS WITH THE
PERIMETER ARE ALMOST A PRAIRIE
STYLE.
>> THE THIS THIS ROOF IT TIES
IN UNDERNEATH THE ROOF OF THE
SHED DORMER WHICH IS WHICH WAS
WHAT STAFF RECOMMENDED THAT
THEY DO IN ORDER TO KEEP THAT
CORNER INTACT
.
>> THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS THAT SHED DORMER YOU
CAN SEE THAT ON THIS SIDE THE
SHED DORMER IS TRUNCATED BY THE
ADDITION RATHER THAN MAKING THE
ADDITIONS NARROWER AND
CENTERING IT ON THIS DORMER.
I THINK AT ONE POINT THEY SAID
THEY CAN CORRECT ME IF THEY'RE
WRONG WHEN THEY COME UP BUT
THAT THAT WOULD MAKE THE
ADDITIONS MUCH DEEPER TO GET
THE SIZE THAT THEY WERE LOOKING
FOR AND THERE'S NOT A WHOLE LOT
OF ROOM TO GO BACK FARTHER IN
THAT BACK YARD SINCE IT IS A A
BILEL.
BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S
THIS INSET DORMER THIS IS THIS
IS WAS INTENTIONAL TO MIMIC THE
DORMER ON THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE.
IT'S GOT A THREE PART SLIDING
DOOR, A COUPLE OF NEW WINDOWS
ON BACK.
THIS IS THE LET'S SEE THE EAST
ELEVATION AND REALLY THE ONLY
PROBLEMATIC PART OF THIS WHOLE
APPLICATION FOR ME IS RIGHT
HERE THE THE THE SHED DORMER IS
IS TRUNCATED AGAIN IN ORDER TO
ACCOMMODATE THIS WIDER SECOND
FLOOR ADDITION, COMMISSIONERS
WILL HAVE TO DECIDE WHETHER THE
THE SHED DORMER IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE AND WHETHER
THIS IS PROBLEMATIC FOR THAT OR
NOT ON THE BACK IT WILL BE THE
DECK.
IT WILL ONCE AGAIN BELOW IT
DOES NOT WANT OF GUARDRAILS OR
ANYTHING AND THE WINDOWS ARE
SMALLER ON THIS ELEVATION.
>> BUT AGAIN I THINK THEY'RE
COMPATIBLE.
>> THEY'RE ROUGHLY THE SIZE A
LITTLE BIT TALLER THAN A COUPLE
OF SMALL WINDOWS ON THIS SIDE.
SO THESE RENDERINGS ARE REALLY
HELPFUL TO UNDERSTAND THE
VOLUME AND THE MASS OF WHAT'S
GOING ON IN THE BACK.
>> YOU'VE GOT YOUR TEN INSET.
YOU'VE GOT YOUR ROOFLINES
COMING TOGETHER HERE AND THEN
THIS SIDE YOU'VE GOT THIS ROOF
TYING IN THE EHV THE SAME DEPTH
OF THE EXISTING EVE AND THAT
THAT TRUNCATED DORMER UP HERE
ON THE TOP WHEN WE ARE ONSITE
WITH THE REVIEW COMMITTEE, I
BELIEVE THAT THIS HEIGHT WAS
TWELVE INCHES.
>> BUT AGAIN, CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG THAT WAS OK OK WHICH IS
GOOD BECAUSE THAT GIVES YOU A
LITTLE WIGGLE ROOM IF YOU GET
IN THERE AND YOU REALIZE THAT
THERE'S SOME WACKY CONSTRUCTION
GOING ON AND YOU NEED TO PUMP
IT UP TWO INCHES YOU STILL GOT
ROOM WHEREAS IF IT TIES IN
EXACTLY TO THE ROOF BRIDGE IT
GIVES YOU NO PLACE TO GO AT
ALL.
AND HERE'S THE TEN INCH INSET
AND ON THIS SIDE THE DOORS DO
INDICATE THAT THEY'RE SIMULATED
DIVIDED LIGHTS WITH SPACERS THE
THE CLAD WOOD WINDOWS AND THE
ADDITION THEY DON'T INDICATE
THAT THEY'RE THAT THEY'RE THE
SIMULATED DIVIDED LIGHTS.
IN FACT, THIS LOOKS AN AWFUL
LOT LIKE BLINDS BETWEEN THE
GLASS WHICH PROBABLY WOULDN'T
BE APPROPRIATE.
BUT WHEN THE WHEN THE AFRICANS
COME UP THEY CAN TALK ABOUT
THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO SOME OF THESE STANDARDS I'VE
ALREADY READ TO YOU I HAVE READ
TO NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE ROBERTE SHALL BE
PRESERVED.
>> I'VE READ TO YOU NINE AND
TEN ALREADY.
I'M JUST GOING TO SORT OF BUST
THROUGH THESE BECAUSE SOME
OF THEM YOU'VE ALREADY HEARD
FOUR EDITIONS.
>> THE GUIDELINES DO RECOMMEND
CONSTRUCTING A NEW EDITION SO
THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
EDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT MAKES
CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC AND WHAT
IS NEW.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN A NEW ADDITIONS TO THE
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION TO
THE BUILDING OUT OF PROPORTION
THUS DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER THIS THIS EDITION,
THE FOOTPRINT AND THE FLOOR
AREA ARE BOTH RIGHT AT 50
PERCENT SO IT'S MAXIMIZING
WHAT'S RECOMMENDED IN THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
SO SIZE WISE THAT PART CHECKS
OUT.
>> IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT NEW
ADDITIONS THAT RESULT IN THE
DIMINUTION OR LOSS OF THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
RESOURCE INCLUDING ITS DESIGN
MATERIALS, WORKMANSHIP,
LOCATION AND SETTING FOR ROOFS.
>> IT'S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN
AND PRESERVE ROOFS AND THEIR
FUNCTIONAL DECORATIVE FEATURES
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS INCLUDES THE ROOF SHAPE
DECORATIVE FEATURES SUCH AS
CHIMNEYS AND ROOFING MATERIAL
NOT RECOMMENDED AS CHANGING THE
CONFIGURATION OF A ROOF BY
ADDING NEW FEATURES SUCH AS
DORMER WINDOWS
, VENTS OR
SKYLIGHTS SO THAT HISTORIC
CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED
FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR ALTERATIONS
OR ADDITIONS FOR THE NEW USE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
ADDITIONS TO ROOFS OR DORMERS
OR SKYLIGHTS WHEN REQUIRED BY
THE NEW USE THAT THEY ARE
INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND DO NOT DAMAGE
OR OBSCURE CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LOCATE A
REQUIRED EDITION ON THE LEAST
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION
AND KEEPING IT SUBORDINATE AND
VOLUME TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
THE ADDITION SO IT'S COMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF MACING MATERIALS
RELATIONSHIP OF SOLIDS TO
VOID'S AND PROPORTION
OF OPENING'S.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT.
>> THIS IS THE FOOTPRINT IN
FLOOR AREA THAT I ALREADY
MENTIONED.
>> IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE NEW WALLS IN A DIFFERENT
PLANE FROM THIS DARK STRUCTURE
IN A SUBORDINATE POSITION TO
THE HISTORIC FABRIC NOT
APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN.
IN ADDITION THAT OVERPOWERS OR
DRAMATICALLY ALTERS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING THROUGH SIZE
OR HEIGHT.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN ORIGINAL HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS ROOF SHAPE
DORMERS, CUPOLAS CHIMNEYS AND
BUILT IN DECORATIVE GUTTERS AND
DOWNSPOUTS.
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME GET BACK UP TO THE
PICTURES AND LET ME SEE WHAT
COMMENTS I HAVE FOR YOU STILL I
THINK I MENTIONED THAT CLADDING
IS SMOOTH CARDBOARD BOARD WITH
AN EIGHT INCH EXPOSURE
.
>> SEE SO BECAUSE THE THE PATIO
DOORS CHECKED OUT ON THE THE
APPLIED MUNNS ON THE INTERIOR
AND THE EXTERIOR WITH A SPACER
BUT THE WINDOW SPECIFICATIONS
DIDN'T SAY THAT CLEARLY THEY
MIGHT BE FINE.
WE MIGHT JUST NEED TO LOOK AT
BETTER SPECS BUT THE MOTION
THAT I'VE SUGGESTED THAT YOU
DON'T HAVE TO USE INCLUDES THE
CONDITION THAT THE WINDOWS AND
PATIO DOORS EITHER HAVE NO
GRILLS OR USE.
MONTAIGNE'S APPLIED TO THE
INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR OF A
SPACERS IN THE PATTERN SHOWN SO
WE WERE ABLE TO CLEAR UP THE
PATIO DOORS PART OF IT AFTER I
WROTE THIS MOUNTAIN BUT THIS
STAFF REPORT PUTS THE WINDOWS.
I'M STILL A LITTLE CONCERNED
LET'S SEE FOR ORIGINAL WINDOWS
AND A DOOR OPENING WILL BE LOST
TO THE ADDITION
.
>> OK, I DON'T BELIEVE IT WILL
UNDULY IMPACT THE CONTRIBUTING
GARAGE BARN SO REALLY IT'S A
SHED DORMER THAT STAFF IS VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE E ELEVATION
.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT IT MEETS
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> THE ONE MITIGATING FACTOR IS
THAT IT'S REALLY HARD TO SEE
FROM THE STREET BUT IT IS STILL
A CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
OF THE BUILDING.
SO THAT IS A DECISION THAT THE
HGC IS GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE.
>> BUT LET ME GET BACK OUT HERE
TO THE STREET, SEE THIS SITE.
IT'S REALLY CLOSE SO YOU CAN
SEE THE THE DORMER BACK THERE.
BUT ON THE OTHER SIDE IT'S
SETBACK.
>> YOU WOULD PROBABLY SEE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE ADDITION HERE
BECAUSE IT'S INSET TEN INCHES
BUT THAT DORMER IS ALREADY OUT
OF SIGHT.
SO THAT CONCLUDES STAFF REPORT
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO LET'S HEAR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT THAT'S FROM
COMMISSIONERS FORTNER AND
CATHERINE STARTING WITH THE
SITE THE OVERALL HOW THIS FITS
INTO THE SITE.
YOU KNOW, ADDING SOMETHING ONTO
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE BUT THE
THE BACK YARD ACTUALLY HAS TWO
SEPARATE SECTIONS AND A RAISED
ELEVATION AND THIS NEW ADDITION
KIND OF NEATLY DOVETAILS WITH
THE TERMINATION OF THE FIRST
AND LOWER SECTION LEAVING STILL
QUITE A LOT OF YARD.
YOU CAN SEE THAT MARK OR THE
THE THE WAY ACTUALLY IT DOESN'T
SHOW AT GRADE CHANGE HERE.
>> YEAH.
OH THAT IS THAT THAT'S IT.
SO IT'S NICELY THERE AND
>> YEAH.
THERE'S STILL PLENTY OF YARD
SO IT'S NICELY THERE AND
BEHIND THAT.
THERE'S STILL PLENTY OF YARD
THE THING THAT JUMPED OUT TO ME
BEHIND THAT.
HERE ALSO WHAT JILL SAID AND
THE THING THAT JUMPED OUT TO ME
THAT IS THAT THE SECTION OF THE
HERE ALSO WHAT JILL SAID AND
ORIGINAL GROUP THAT KIND
THAT IS THAT THE SECTION OF THE
OF STICKS OUT THROUGH WHAT
ORIGINAL GROUP THAT KIND
WOULD BE ADDED AND I CAN SEE
OF STICKS OUT THROUGH WHAT
HOW ON THE ONE HAND THE LETTER
WOULD BE ADDED AND I CAN SEE
OF OUR GUIDELINES AS SOMETHING
HOW ON THE ONE HAND THE LETTER
TO THE EFFECT OF WE SHOULD TRY
OF OUR GUIDELINES AS SOMETHING
TO PRESERVE EXISTING MATERIAL
TO THE EFFECT OF WE SHOULD TRY
WHERE WHERE POSSIBLE BUT HAVING
TO PRESERVE EXISTING MATERIAL
A PROJECT THROUGH THE NEW PART
WHERE WHERE POSSIBLE BUT HAVING
OF THE AUDITION'S ROOF YOU
A PROJECT THROUGH THE NEW PART
KNOW, STEVE, YOU CAN SAVE THESE
OF THE AUDITION'S ROOF YOU
COMMENTS FOR COMMISSIONAIRE
KNOW, STEVE, YOU CAN SAVE THESE
DISCUSSION BUT JUST SHARE ANY
COMMENTS FOR COMMISSIONAIRE
OBSERVATIONS ABOUT THE SITE.
DISCUSSION BUT JUST SHARE ANY
>> THANK.
OBSERVATIONS ABOUT THE SITE.
ALL RIGHT THEN I THINK YEAH.
>> THANK.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
ALL RIGHT THEN I THINK YEAH.
TO ADD TO THAT.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
TO ADD TO THAT.
>> IT'S A VERY GOOD OK SO THEN
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE STEP
>> IT'S A VERY GOOD OK SO THEN
FORWARD?
WOULD THE APPLICANT PLEASE STEP
>> IS THE APPLICANT HERE?
FORWARD?
>> KATIE IS PROBABLY ONLINE.
>> IS THE APPLICANT HERE?
IT SOUNDS LIKE KATIE'S ONLINE
>> KATIE IS PROBABLY ONLINE.
SO WE'LL ASK ONCE YOU'RE
IT SOUNDS LIKE KATIE'S ONLINE
PROMOTED HERE FOR YOU TO
SO WE'LL ASK ONCE YOU'RE
UNMUTED YOUR MICROPHONE AND
PROMOTED HERE FOR YOU TO
TURN ON YOUR VIDEO
.
ALL RIGHT.
GIVE HER ONE SECOND HERE.
FINISH UP.
>> HELLO.
HELLO.
HI.
WOULD YOU PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND YOU'VE GOT UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK RIGHT NOW AND
WE JUST WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF
YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT AND THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT THAT YOU'VE
JUST HEARD.
>> SURE.
MY NAME IS KATIE QOSI.
I AN ARCHITECT AND I'M A DESIGN
TEAM FOR THE PROJECT AND I'M
FROM BERKELEY, MICHIGAN SO I'M
NOT IN YOUR CITY BUT IF YOU
WOULD LIKE MY ADDRESS AT
SEVENTEEN FIFTY NINE DOROTHY AT
BERKELEY, MICHIGAN AND SO I'M
WORKING ON THIS GREAT LITTLE
HOUSE AND THIS FAMILY LOVES
THIS CRAFTSMAN STYLE AND THEY
JUST WANT SOME EXTRA SPACE FOR
THEIR GROWING FAMILY AS YOU CAN
IMAGINE.
SO WE'VE REALLY TRIED TO
MINIMIZE THE IMPACT OF THIS
ADDITION FROM THE STREET VIEW
SO THERE'S NO CHANGES TO THE
FRONT FACADE.
WE'VE REALLY TRIED TO KEEP THE
MOST OUTER EDGES OF THE SIDE
FACADES INTACT.
OBVIOUSLY WE'VE CHATTED ABOUT
THE DOOR IN THE BACK BUT WE'VE
WE FELT THAT FROM THE STREET
THAT TRUNCATED DORMER IS NOT
VISIBLE AS IT IS NOW.
SO WE THOUGHT THAT IT WAS OK TO
MAKE THIS CHANGE.
WE WE DO THINK THAT WE MADE
SURE THE HEIGHTS WERE LOWER.
EVERYTHING IS IN PROPORTION
LIKE LOWER THAN THE EXISTING
AND ONE OF THE OTHER BIG
PROJECT OBJECTIVES FOR THIS
FAMILY IS THEY REALLY WANTED TO
MAXIMIZE THE VISIBILITY FROM
INSIDE THE HOUSE OF THEIR
BACKYARD BECAUSE THEIR BACKYARD
IS GORGEOUS.
THAT UPPER LEVEL WITH THEIR BIG
TREES AND THEY LOVE TO USE THE
BACKYARD DINING SPACE.
SO WITH THIS ADDITION WE REALLY
TRIED TO MAXIMIZE THAT FOR THEM
.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
KATIE, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS?
>> OK, SO NOW WE MIGHT HAVE A
FEW QUESTIONS FOR YOU.
I HAD ONE JUST NOT A COMMENT
BUT JUST SORT OF RELATED TO THE
STAFF REPORT.
>> THERE WAS JUST A QUESTION
ABOUT THE THE WINDOWS YOU'RE
SHOWING LIKE A TRI PANE PELA
AND ON THE ELEVATION IT LOOKS
LIKE THERE'S MONTAIGNE'S BUT
THEN IN THE SPECS THERE WASN'T
ANY CALL OUT SO THERE IS JUST A
YOU KNOW, SOME SORT
OF DISCREPANCY THERE.
SO SO WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THE
WINDOWS?
>> SO YES, THAT WAS JUST AN
IMAGE FROM A CUT SHEET LIKE THE
GENERIC COLOR FOR THE LIFESTYLE
.
GLAD WE WILL NOT BE DOING THE
BLINDS AND THE INSIDE OF IT OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
WE WILL STILL MATCH THE SLIDING
DOORS BACK WHERE YOU ADD THE
SIMULATED GRILL ON THE OUTSIDE.
YEAH.
SO YEAH THAT IMAGE IS JUST A
GENERIC SPEC IMAGE.
>> VERY GOOD.
DOES THAT ANSWER THE DAFFS
QUESTION.
YEAH OK YEAH VERY GOOD.
OK WELL THANK YOU KATIE IS ARE
THERE OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT.
>> WONDERFUL.
OK WELL HOLD ON WE'VE GOT TO DO
THE PUBLIC HEARING BUT WE MIGHT
GET BACK TO YOU IN A MOMENT SO
NOW WE'LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM 407 WEST
MOSELEY.
>> THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION.
>> SO PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE IF YOU'RE NO NO ONE IS
PRESSING STAR NINE SO WE DON'T
HAVE ANYONE REMOTELY AND I
DON'T SEE ANYONE IN PERSON
HERE.
SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS APPLICATION
AND I'LL ASK IF A COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS ITEM.
>> YOU DID ONE OF THESE CHIPS
SO I THINK I SOMEONE ELSE
BESIDES COMMISSIONER SMITH.
>> I COULD DO IT.
THANK YOU.
I MEAN THE COMMISSION ISSUED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF FOUR
OF SEVEN WEST MOSELY STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY THE WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
CONSTRUCT A SIX HUNDRED
EIGHTEEN SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
TO THE REAR ELEVATION OF THE
HOUSE AND AN EIGHT FOOT BY
TWENTY FOUR FOOT DECK BEHIND
THE ADDITION WITH THE FOLLOWING
CONDITION THAT THE CLAD WINDOWS
AND PATIO DOORS HAVE NO GRILLS
BETWEEN GLASS AND THAT EITHER
MATINS OR IN THE END THE
PATTERN SHOWN ARE APPLIED TO
THE INTERIOR
IN NEXT YEAR WITH
SPACERS OR NOT THAT OR THAT NO
MODERN STUDIO USE AT ALL AS
CONDITIONING THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE INTERIOR IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA THAT IT MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS, REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REAL REAL
DEBILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS
IN PARTICULAR TO STANDARDS TWO
FIVE I INTEND AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
ADDITIONS AND ROOFS AS WELL AS
HISTORIC AND OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES WERE
ALL EDITIONS, RESIDENTIAL
EDITIONS AND ROOFS.
>> DOES ANYONE SECOND THE
SECOND GRADE THAT WAS MOVED
COMMISSIONER CALDERON SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN NOW WE'LL
GET TO SOME DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION BUT I JUST WANTED TO
MAKE SURE SO THE MOTION HAD
THAT COMMENT ABOUT THE WINDOWS
WHERE IT SAID EITHER NO
MONTAIGNE'S OR SIMULATED
DIVIDED LIGHT INTERIOR AND
EXTERIOR WITH THE SPACE WITH
THE SPACER.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE HEARD IN THE
MOTION.
YEAH.
AND I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT'S THAT WAS WHAT WE
HEARD THE APPLICANTS SAY OR
JUST TO REPEAT THAT'S I SEE THE
APPLICANT NODDING.
>> SO I THINK THAT WE'RE GOOD
THERE.
>> OK, SO I MEAN I GUESS DOES
ANYONE HAVE ANY COMMENTS ON
THIS OTHER THAN HAVING TO DO
WITH THE REAR SHED DORMER MEAN
ANYTHING AT ALL?
>> I MEAN IT JUST SEEMED VERY,
VERY CLEAR ESPECIALLY WITH THE
VERY THOROUGH STAFF REPORT THAT
WE HEARD THAT THAT THAT'S
REALLY THE THE ISSUE IF THERE'S
ANY ISSUE WITH THIS
APPLICATION.
OK, SO NOW WE CAN JUST FOCUS IN
ON THAT AND I JUST WOULD BE
CURIOUS IF SOMEONE HAS A
COMMENT ON WHAT'S GOING ON WITH
THE REAR SHED DORMER I GUESS I
DON'T HAVE ANY STRONGER
FEELINGS ABOUT THE SHED WARMER
THAN I DO ABOUT LOSING THE
WINDOWS AND THE DOORS ON THE
BACK THERE BACK YOU KNOW, THERE
ON THE BACK OF THE BUILDING
SECONDARY IT'S IT'S MODIFIED IN
A WAY IT'S CONSISTENT WITH THE
REST OF THE HOUSE.
THERE'S A FRONT CABLE ORMOC SO
THAT THAT DOESN'T CONCERN ME.
>> UM, I I LIKE WHAT I LOOK THE
EAST FACADE HOW THE KEEPING THE
SHED DORMER ROOFLINE THERE AS
MUCH AS YOU KNOW IS A GOOD WAY
OF SORT OF SHOWING HOW THE NEW
TIES INTO THE OLD ON THE WEST
SIDE AND THE EAST SIDE.
>> OH ON THE EAST SIDE THE WEST
SIDE BECAUSE THE DORMER WAS SO
FAR IN FROM THE EXISTING ROOF
OK THE FULL ROOF I THINK I HAVE
MY EAST WEST.
YEAH.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW THIS I THINK
YOU CAN LOOK AT THIS AND SAY OH
THAT WAS THE ORIGINAL ROOF AND
THEY STUCK THIS CABLE IN THERE.
>> THE LABELS WERE REVERSED ON
THERE OK THIS IS WHAT I WAS
LOOKING SO BUT WHEN YOU SEE
THIS I DON'T THINK YOU LOOK AND
SAY OH THAT'S WHERE THE
ORIGINAL DORMER WAS.
IT'S YOU LOOK AT THIS AND SAY
WHAT WHY DID THEY DO THAT?
YOU'RE SAYING WHY DID THE
ORIGINAL WELL DESIGNERS OR THE
NEW DESIGN OF KEEPING THIS ROOF
LINE OF THE ORIGINAL SHED
DORMER IS TO PROVIDE THAT
HISTORY OF WHAT WAS THERE
BEFORE THIS EDITION WAS PUT ON
THE BACK.
>> I THINK IT DOES THAT AND ON
THIS ELEVATION I DON'T THINK
BECAUSE THERE'S SO LITTLE
OF YEAH.
THAT IT DOES ON THIS SIDE SO I
DON'T I GUESS IT WOULD TELL THE
WHOLE STORY THOUGH, RIGHT IS IF
YOU USE BOTH TOGETHER YOU COULD
RETRACE THE OUTLINE OF THE
ORIGINAL WITHOUT THAT LITTLE
BIT ON THE SIDE YOU CAN SEE
BOTH SIDES AT THE SAME TIME.
NOPE NOPE.
BUT BUT THAT WASN'T AN ARGUMENT
AGAINST PROJECT AS FAR AS I CAN
TELL.
RIGHT.
OK, SO ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
I MEAN I AGREE WITH WITH WHAT I
HEARD FROM COMMISSIONER
FORTNER.
>> DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, VERY GOOD.
LET'S GO TO A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST
RECEIVE ALL REQUIRED PERMITS
FROM THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT AND THAT THE WORK
IN THE PERMITS MUST MATCH WHAT
WAS APPROVED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
>> THANKS KATIE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH AND THANK YOU
JILL.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANKS.
VERY GOOD.
OK MOVING RIGHT ALONG HERE TO
EF THREE THAT'S ONE SEVENTEEN
NORTH DIVISION
ORIANNA GETS TO
DO THIS ONE WONDERFUL
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE AT 117 NORTH DIVISION
WHICH IS A TWO AND A HALF STORY
CRAFTSMAN STYLE BUILDING.
>> IT HAS A SIDE CABLE SHINGLE
ROOF WITH THE FRONT DOOR AS
WELL AS A CABLE OVER THE FRONT
ENTRANCE.
THE FIRST STORY IS BRICK CLAD.
THE SECOND STORY HAS STUCCO AND
TIMBERING.
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE ONE STORY
ABOUT ONE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING AND THEN ONE ON
THE WEST SIDE WHICH IS THE REAR
THAT ALSO HAVE THAT STUCCO AND
TIMBERING ARE THE REAR ONE DOES
THE ONE ON THE SOUTH SIDE HAS
BRICK ON THE EXTERIOR OF THE
HOUSE FIRST APPEARS ON THE
NINETEEN SIXTEEN SANDBORN FIRE
INSURANCE MAP.
>> THE BUILDING'S OVERALL FORM
HAS NOT CHANGED SIGNIFICANTLY
SINCE THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
THE REAR BUMPER WAS SLIGHTLY
EXPANDED BUT THAT HAPPENED IN
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE OR AT LEAST
IT'S SHOWN ON THE NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE SANDBORN MAP FROM
THE 1960S UNTIL THE MID 1990S
CATHOLIC SOCIAL SERVICES
OPERATED ON THE SITE.
THEY MADE A FEW CHANGES WHILE
THEY WERE THERE INCLUDING
ENCLOSING THE PORCHE ON THE
SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
>> SO NOW IT JUST LOOKS LIKE
THE BRICK BUMP OUT THAT YOU SEE
HERE.
>> THERE WAS A GARAGE AT THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE AS WELL THAT
WAS PRESENT ON THE NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT SANDBORN MAP.
IT WAS DEMOLISHED IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY EIGHT AND THEN IN THE
EARLY 1980S THE REAR YARD WAS
REPAVED.
THERE ARE SOME OTHER MINOR
REPAIRS AT THE TIME AND THEN
THE ONLY OTHER MAJOR CHANGE WAS
THE ENTRY RAMP THAT WAS
INSTALLED AT THE FRONT OF THE
BUILDING IN 1996 AND THAT SAME
TIME THESE FRONT STEPS THAT YOU
SEE WERE REDONE.
SO AGAIN WE ARE ON THE WEST
SIDE OF NORTH DIVISION STREET,
SOUTH OF AND STREET AND JUST
NORTH OF HERE ON AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A WOOD FIRE
ESCAPE STAIR ON THE NORTH SIDE
ELEVATION OF THE BUILDING.
>> SO WE WALK THROUGH A COUPLE
OF PHOTOS GUN THIS WAS ONCE A
PORCH THAT WAS THEN ENCLOSED IN
THE 1960S HAVE ANOTHER VIEW
OF THE BUILDING.
THEN WE'LL SEE ON THE DRAWINGS
THAT THE NEW FIRE ESCAPE STAIR
IS PROPOSED TO BE RIGHT HERE ON
THIS SIDE.
THIS IS THE BACK YOU CAN SEE
THE PARKING LOT THAT WAS
RECENTLY REPAVED THIS RIGHT
HERE UP TOP OF THIS BUMBO IT IS
THE FORMER FIRE ESCAPE STAIRS.
SO THERE WAS PREVIOUSLY ONE
THAT WENT FROM RIGHT HERE AND
THEN RAN DOWN RIGHT HERE THIS
SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
>> SO AT THE REAR AND AGAIN ALL
OF THIS WAS PRESENT DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE AT LEAST
THE BUILDING NOT THE FIRE
ESCAPE STAIR.
>> ANOTHER VIEW OF THE BACK SO
YOU CAN SEE THE PARKING LOT
AGAIN.
THIS IS WHERE THE FORMER STAIR
WAS AND THEN THIS SIDE RIGHT
HERE IS WHERE THE NEW FIRE
ESCAPE STAIRS PROPOSED TO GO.
SO IT WILL START FROM RIGHT
HERE ON TOP THIS ONE STORY AND
THEN IT'LL COME OUT A LITTLE
BIT TO GO OVER THIS ROOFLINE
AND THEN GO DOWN HEADING
TOWARDS DIVISION.
>> YOU CAN SEE THIS GARAGE HERE
THE GOOD KIND INDICATOR YOU
CAN'T REALLY SEE VERY WELL FROM
THIS ANGLE BUT IT WILL STOP THE
STAIRWELL STOP BEFORE THE
CLOSEST POINT OF THIS GARAGE TO
DIVISION.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT DIVISION
AGAIN.
THIS IS WHERE THE NEW STAIR IS
PROPOSED TO GO.
THE LANDING FOR THE STAIR WOULD
BE RIGHT UP ON TOP OF THIS AND
THEN WOULD COME OUT A LITTLE
BIT AND GO DOWN JUST ANOTHER
VIEW OF THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
WHERE THE STAIR WILL GO THEN
THIS IS LOOKING FROM DIVISION
TOWARDS WHERE IT WILL BE.
>> SO JUST ABOUT THIS AREA AND
AGAIN IT WILL STOP THE BOTTOM
STAIR WILL STOP BEFORE THIS
EDGE OF THE GARAGE.
THE NEIGHBOR'S GARAGE.
>> SO YOU CAN SEE THAT A LITTLE
BIT BETTER ON THE DRAWINGS.
SO THIS IS THE THE FORMER STAIR
THAT HAS ALREADY BEEN REMOVED.
THIS IS THE NEW STAIR ATTACH
AND THEN GO ALONG THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING JUST A LITTLE
BIT OF A ZOOMED IN LOOK AT WHAT
THE STAIRCASE WILL ACTUALLY
LOOK LIKE.
IT WILL BE TREATED WOOD VERY
SIMPLE AND DESIGN AND THEN A
SIDE ELEVATION OF WHAT IT'LL
LOOK LIKE MOSTLY FREESTANDING
EXCEPT FOR THIS LANDING OUT
HERE SO IT WON'T TOUCH THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
JUST SOME MORE DETAILS, SOME
SECTIONS AND YOU KNOW THE
HANDRAIL SPINDLES CAN TREATED
WOOD THEN
SO I THINK THE OTHER
THINGS THAT I'LL MENTION BEFORE
I GO THROUGH THE STANDARD
AGAIN
UTILITARIAN DESIGN FOR THE
PROPOSED FIRE ESCAPE STAIR.
>> THE APPLICANT HAS SAID THAT
THIS FIRE ESCAPE IS REQUIRED BY
CODE .
>> THEY'RE ALSO PER THE
APPLICANT.
THE LOCATION OF THIS STAIR ON
THE SIDE OF THE BUILDING WHICH
MAKES IT A LITTLE BIT MORE
VISIBLE RATHER THAN THE REAR
WHERE THE FORMER STAIR WAS WILL
GIVE THEM BETTER USE OF THE
PARKING LOT LIMITED HISTORIC
FEATURES AND MATERIALS WILL BE
IMPACTED.
>> THE IMPACT WILL BE MAINLY
VISUAL.
>> SO JOE HAS ALREADY GONE
THROUGH ONE NINE AND OH NO I
DON'T THINK SHE'S DONE ONE.
>> I'LL DO A PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
BE GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS FEATURES
,BASES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
>> SHE HAS DONE NINE AND TEN
JUST A FEW GUIDELINES FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
HEALTH AND SAFETY.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO WORK WITH
LOCAL OFFICIALS TO INVESTIGATE
SYSTEMS, METHODS OR DEVICES FOR
SAFETY THAT CAN BE PRESCRIBED
BY CODE THAT IS THAT AVOIDS ANY
UNNECESSARY ALTERATIONS.
>> IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
RADICALLY CHANGED DAMAGED OR
DESTROY A CHARACTER DEFINING
SPACES, FEATURES OR FINISHES
WHEN ADDING CODE REQUIRED
STAIRWAYS WHERE ELEVATORS AS
FAR AS EDITIONS GO JOE ALREADY
HAS ALREADY BEEN THROUGH THESE
SO I'LL JUST SKIP THROUGH
COMING TO OUR OWN HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES
AGAIN WITH SAFETY CODES IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO COMPLY WITH
BARRIER FREE AND SAFETY CODES
IN A MANNER THAT ENSURES THE
PRESERVATION OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES AND IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO WHEN REQUIRED
ADD NEW STAIRWAYS AND ELEVATORS
THAT DO NOT ALTER EXISTING
FACILITIES AND SPACES.
>> THE BUILDING AND I THINK
WE'VE ALREADY TALKED ABOUT
ADDITIONS SO TYPICALLY WE SEE
FIRE ESCAPES ASKED TO BE
REMOVED FROM STRUCTURES IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS BUT IF THIS
ONE IS REQUIRED BY CODE , YOU
KNOW THE DESIGN IS VERY SIMPLE
IS MORE VISIBLE THAN THE
PREVIOUS ONE WOULD HAVE BEEN
BUT DOESN'T HAVE A WHOLE LOT
OF IMPACT ON THE HISTORIC
FEATURES, SPACES, MATERIALS
OF THE BUILDING AND THAT'S ALL
I HAVE.
WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO WE'LL NOW GET THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT JUST TO
REITERATE THAT IT'S MINIMAL
IMPACT ON THE BUILDING AND
VISUALLY.
YES, ESPECIALLY WITH THIS
BUILDING WHERE IT ENTIRELY
VIEWABLE FROM THE REAR AS WELL
.
YOU COULD ARGUE THAT THE
STAIRWELL GETTING TUCKED INTO
THE NARROW POCKET ON THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING BETWEEN THE
NEIGHBORING HOUSE IS LESS
VISIBLE THAN WHERE IT WAS
INITIALLY BECAUSE IT HAD THE
BACK OF THIS BUILDING IS VERY
EASILY SEEN FROM THE PARKING
ACTUALLY RIGHT BEHIND US HERE
AT CITY HALL.
I THINK IT'S VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
I THINK IT'S THE BEST PLACE FOR
THE FIRE ESCAPE.
THANK YOU BOTH.
OK, SO IS THE APPLICANT HERE.
GREAT.
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM,
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE FIVE
MINUTES AND REFLECT ON WHAT
YOU'VE HEARD PLEASE.
>> MY NAME'S ROB, OUR 555
RAWNSLEY.
SO WE START THE HOUSE STARTED
OUT WE HAD A DRIVEWAY THE
PARKING LOT LOWER.
WE HAD OLD RAILROAD RETAINING
WALL BUT IT WAS FINE BECAUSE
THEY COULD ACCESS THE PARKING
LOT FROM BEHIND BUT THEN THE
CREDIT PUT A FENCE IN THAT
WHOLE PARKING LOT BECAME
USELESS.
WE COULDN'T ACCESS IT.
THE BUILDING HAS APPROXIMATELY
20 OCCUPANT LOAD MAYBE A LITTLE
MORE BECAUSE OF SOME OFFICES
STUFF.
SO ALL THEY HAD WAS A DRIVEWAY.
YOU KNOW THERE'S PARKING ON
DIVISION AND STREETS ALL CITY
VEHICLE PARKING.
SO IT'S IT'S BEEN A TOUGH FOR
THE OWNERS TO TO GET OCCUPANCY
IN THERE JUST BECAUSE IT'S
LANDLOCKED.
SO THIS WAS THE WAY WE COULD WE
COULD MAKE THE PARKING LOT WORK
.
THE FIRE ESCAPE HAD TO GO
REGARDLESS JUST BECAUSE OUR
ELEVATION CHANGES AND IT JUST
IT JUST MAKES MORE SENSE TO PUT
ON THE SIDE BECAUSE THAT CORNER
IS GOING TO BE TIGHT WHEN THE
DRIVE TO GET DOWN THE RAMP AND
INTO THE PARKING LOT.
SO THIS IS WHAT WE WE HOPE TO
DO.
>> VERY GOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
OK, WE MIGHT NEED YOU BACK BUT
FOR NOW WE APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS AND WE WILL NOW OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
IN AT 117 NORTH DIVISION.
>> I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE REMOTELY
KNOW?
SO THEN WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL ASK
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION?
>> SURE.
RIGHT.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 117 NORTH
DIVISION STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REMOVE THE
EXISTING EXTERIOR FIRE ESCAPE
ESCAPES THERE ON THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING AND CONSTRUCT A
NEW EXTERIOR FIRE ESCAPE STAIR
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING AS PROPOSED THE WORK
IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE BUILDING
AND THE SURROUNDING AREA AND
MEETS THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ADDITIONS
AS WELL AS THE AND BREASTWORK
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND SAFETY CODES.
DO WE HAVE A SECOND EMOTION
SECOND RATE THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER?
WELL I THINK WE'VE HEARD MAYBE
A CONSENSUS HERE THAT THIS IS
THIS IS A KIND OF REQUIRED ITEM
AND IT'S IT'S IN THE RIGHT SPOT
MORE OR LESS AND I'LL JUST ADD
THAT IT'S IT'S IMMENSELY
REMOVABLE IF ANYONE FUTURE
OWNER OR THIS OWNER WANTS TO
REMOVE IT AND THERE'S NO
THERE'S NO HISTORIC FEATURES
BEING REMOVED OR OBSCURED OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THIS
ONE?
>> EVERYONE'S JUST SORT
OF NODDING SO OK, I THINK WE'RE
ALL IN AGREEMENT THEN AND WE
CAN GO RIGHT TO THE VOTE AND
I'LL JUST SAY ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE YOU MUST RECEIVE ALL
REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE CITY
AND THE PERMITS NEED TO MATCH
THE PROPOSAL HERE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, WE ARE NOW READY FOR ITEM
FOUR.
IT'S ONE TO CREST THE STAFF
REPORT WHENEVER WHENEVER YOU'RE
READY PLEASE
.
OK
SO WHY DON'T YOU CREST IS IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
IT IS A TWO STORY TWO STORY
COLONIAL REVIVAL.
>> FIRST APPEARS IN PUBLIC
DIRECTORIES IN 1919 AS THE HOME
OF FRED GROSS FEATURES A CENTER
ENTRY WITH A SHALLOW ROUNDED
PORTICO AND ROUND COLUMNS ON
YELLOW BRICK BASIS MATCHING
BRICK WALLS FLANK THE FRONT
STAIRS AND A YELLOW BRICK
CHIMNEY IS CENTERED ON THE
NORTH GABLE END WINDOWS ARE
SYMMETRICAL AND MOSTLY IN PAIRS
.
ALL THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
REPLACED WHAT USED TO BE A
COVERED PORCH ON THE NORTH
ELEVATION ON THE RIGHT IN THIS
PHOTO WAS ENCLOSED SOMETIME
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT
SANDBORN FIRE INSURANCE MAPS IN
JULY.
TWENTY THREE STAFF APPROVED AN
APPLICATION FOR WOOD FENCE AT
THIS ADDRESS AND IT IS AT THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF CREST AND
WEST HERE ON THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING APPROVAL TO ADD A 45
SQUARE FOOT ADDITION ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION INSTALL A NEW
PATIO DOOR ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION NEXT TO THE ADDITION
REMOVE A BASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW
WELL AND INSTALL A NEW SMALLER
WINDOW, MODIFY A BASEMENT
WINDOW, ADD A WELL TO MAKE IT
EGRESS COMPLIANT INFILL TO
BASEMENT WINDOWS ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION RELOCATE THE AIR
CONDITIONING UNIT AND FILL A
SMALL KITCHEN WINDOW AND
REPLACE IT WITH A NARROW
HORIZONTAL WINDOW AND REBUILD
THE OFFICE WALLS AND FOUNDATION
AND INSTALL FOUR WINDOWS.
SO LOTS OF LITTLE THINGS GOING
ON THIS APPLICATION THEY'RE
REALLY WELL DOCUMENTED IN THE
APPLICATION WHICH I APPRECIATE
HUGELY SO BEAR WITH ME HERE AND
WE'LL WALK AROUND THE HOUSE AND
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT'S PROPOSED
.
SO THIS IS THE FRONT ELEVATION
OF THE HOUSE.
THE ONLY CHANGE THAT WOULD BE
PROPOSED ON THIS SIDE IS A A
ONE FOUR ONE OR NINE OVER ONE
DOUBLE LONG WINDOW TO SMASH
WINDOW IS PROPOSED TO GO ON THE
SIDE OF WHAT USED TO BE AN OPEN
PORCH.
KEEP IN MIND THAT THAT NONE
OF THIS INCLOSING IS ORIGINAL
AND WE'LL SEE THE DRAWINGS IN A
MINUTE BUT IT WILL REALLY HELP
THIS LOOK MORE COMPATIBLE
INSTEAD OF JUST LIKE SOMETHING
THAT WAS ENCLOSED WITHOUT
REALLY GIVING A WHOLE LOT
OF THOUGHT TO IT.
I SHOULD ADD THAT THAT THIS
THESE WALLS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
BASICALLY REBUILT AND THE
FOUNDATION TO GET IT BACK INTO
MORE HABITABLE SHAPE.
THERE ARE TWO SLOTTER WINDOWS
IN THE BACK.
THOSE ARE ALSO PROPOSED TO BE
REPLACED WITH WITH ONE OVER ONE
HUNG WINDOWS AND THEN ANOTHER
VIEW OF THAT
FINALLY A SMALLER
WINDOW, SMALLER HORIZONTAL
WINDOW IS PROPOSED TO GO UP ON
THE TOP OF THIS SIDE.
I THINK THAT THAT THESE CHANGES
WILL IMMENSELY HELP THIS THIS
HOUSE'S CHARACTER, THIS THIS
WHOLE ENCLOSED PORCH JUST LOOKS
OUT OF PLACE AND I THINK THAT
THAT'S REALLY GIVE IT A LOT
OF SYMMETRY.
OK, LOOKING DOWN THE THE THE
DRIVEWAY WHICH IS OFF OF HERE
ON YOU CAN SEE THERE ARE
ATTACHED GARAGES ONE FOR EITHER
OF THE HOUSES THAT SHARE THE
DRIVEWAY AND ON THE ON THE BACK
SIDE OF THE HOUSE HERE IT'S THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S NOT THE BACKYARD OF THE
LOT BUT WE HAVE A DOOR AND AN
EGRESS WINDOW WITH A BIG
PLASTIC COVER OVER IT AND THEN
A COUPLE OF JUST TYPICAL
BASEMENT WINDOWS HERE.
SO THE PROPOSAL BACK IN THE
SUMMER WHEN THINGS WERE SO
GREEN AND BEAUTIFUL WAS TO
REMOVE THIS ONE AND TO MOVE THE
EGRESS WINDOW OVER TO THIS.
IT'S JUST A PAIR OF TYPICAL
THREE DIVIDED WOOD HOPPERS OR
OR AWNING WINDOWS.
>> EVERYTHING IS REALLY
SYMMETRICAL ON THIS HOUSE WHICH
IS KIND OF COOL.
EVEN THE BASEMENT WINDOWS ARE
SYMMETRICAL BELOW THIS PAIR
OF WINDOWS WHICH YOU DON'T
REALLY SEE VERY OFTEN.
I'M NOT SURE HOW OFTEN I'VE
SEEN A PAIR OF BASEMENT WINDOWS
LIKE THAT.
ALSO THE AIR CONDITIONING UNIT
WOULD BE RELOCATED FROM THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE THE THE OTHER
BACK OF THE HOUSE TO I THINK
IT'S RIGHT HERE NEXT TO THE
DOOR.
WE'LL GET TO THAT A SECOND.
THAT'S THE EXISTING EGRESS
WINDOW.
YOU CAN SEE IT'S REALLY NARROW
AND DEEP AND I'M PRETTY SURE
IT'S ABOVE A TOILET SO YOU'D
HAVE TO CLIMB ON THE TOILET IN
ORDER TO GET OUT OF THE WINDOW
AND THEN YOU'D HAVE TO CONTEND
WITH THIS PLEXIGLASS COVER IN
ORDER TO GET OUT.
SO THEY WANT TO JUST FILL THIS
WHOLE THING IN, PUT IN A SMALL
BASEMENT WINDOW THAT'S THE
WIDTH OF THE CURRENT OPENING
WHICH WOULD BE COMPLETELY
APPROPRIATE.
NEW WINDOW WOULD GO HERE, NEW
EGRESS WINDOW.
IT WOULD BE A LITTLE NARROWER
ACTUALLY THAN THIS DOUBLE
OPENING BECAUSE THIS IS REALLY
QUITE WIDE AND THE WELL, YOU
KNOW, TYPICAL WELL THE THE THE
THE ALL OF THE SPECS ARE
INCLUDED IN THE APPLICATION
WOULD GO HERE JUST ON THE OTHER
SIDE THE BACK DOOR.
SO THIS IS THE SOUTH FACING
ELEVATION CREST IS OVER HERE
HERE ON IS OVER HERE.
THERE'S THAT BIG WINDOW THIS IS
THE SIDE WITH THE MOST WORK IS
PROPOSED THE FORTY EIGHT SQUARE
WATT EDITION IS A ONE STORY
BASICALLY A BUMP OUT HERE ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE ON THIS
WEST SIDE AND THE EAST SIDE
OF THIS ELEVATION.
>> THIS PAIR OF WINDOWS IS
THEY'RE PROPOSING TO REPLACE
THESE TWO WINDOWS WITH PATIO
DOORS AND WHEN WE GET THE THE
DESIGNERS UP HERE THEY CAN
CONFIRM WHETHER OR NOT THE
PATIO DOORS ARE THE SAME WITH
THIS THIS PAIR OF WINDOWS.
BUT IT WAS PRETTY DARN CLOSE
WHEN WE WERE OUT THERE ON THE
SITE VISIT.
THERE'S A WINDOW HERE AND A
WINDOW BELOW THIS PAIR
OF WINDOWS THAT WOULD BOTH BE
INFELD BECAUSE THIS ONE WOULD
BE OBSCURED BY A NEW EDITION.
THIS WOULDN'T BE OBSCURED BY A
NEW STOOP FOR THE NEW PATIO
DOOR.
CONVENIENTLY THE DEPTH OF THE
ADDITION ALMOST EXACTLY MATCHES
THIS THIS FENCE THIS THIS
RAILING HERE AND RIGHT NOW THE
AIR CONDITIONING UNIT IS INSIDE
THERE AND IT WOULD BE MOVED
AROUND TO THE OTHER SIDE TO THE
LEFT JUST ANOTHER VIEW OF THE
FRONT FROM THE SIDEWALK.
>> IT'S A PRETTY DEEP YARD ON
THIS SIDE
HERE YOU CAN SEE IN
BLUE THE NEW ONE STARTED IT'S
REALLY MINIMAL.
IT'S ONLY IT'S LESS THAN FOUR
FEET DEEP.
THERE'S AN EXISTING PATIO SORRY
I HAD A PICTURE OF BUT I DIDN'T
GET IT INTO THE SLIDESHOW.
BUT THEY'RE JUST THEY'RE GOING
TO DISASSEMBLE IT AND BUILD A
NEW PATIO THAT'S ABOUT THE SAME
SIZE BEHIND THE NEW BACK PATIO
DOORS MAKES PERFECT SENSE AND
THEY'VE GOT A LITTLE CONNECTOR
HERE TO THE DRIVEWAY AND THEN
THIS IS LAWN AND GARDEN IN THE
BACK.
THERE'S A LOT OF INFORMATION ON
HERE THAT YOU GUYS DON'T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT SO MUCH BUT IT'S
FOR ZONING PURPOSES, FOR
SETBACKS AND THINGS.
SO I DO APPRECIATE THAT THE
APPLICANTS ADDED ALL OF THIS SO
THAT WHEN WE COME TIME FOR
BUILDING PERMITS IT'S ALL
THERE.
THIS IS WHERE THE NEW AC UNIT
AND AS WELL ARE SHOWN THIS IS
THE EXISTING BASEMENT PLAN
FRONT PORCHES AT BOTTOM,
EXISTING FIRST FLOOR AND YOU GO
INTO THAT SUNROOM HERE IT'S GOT
A CLOSET RIGHT NOW AND THOSE
TWO EXISTING WINDOWS NEW
BASEMENT HAS A NEW CRAWL SPACE
UNDER THE EDITION AND REBUILT
FOUNDATION UNDER THE SUN PORCH
AND THE KITCHEN WALL GETS
PUMPED OUT HERE THEY GET MORE
CABINET SPACE, SOME MORE LIGHT
IN THE BACK.
HERE'S WHERE YOU WOULD LEAVE
THE DINING ROOM THROUGH THE
PATIO DOORS TO GO OUT INTO THE
BACKYARD.
AND HERE'S THE REBUILT SUN
PORCH NOW OFFICE WITH THE
POWDER ROOM ADDED AND YOU CAN
SEE THE THE NEW WINDOWS AROUND
IT.
>> IS THERE A BUMP IN AT
ADDITION?
THERE'S NOT BECAUSE THERE'S NOT
RIGHT NOW AND THIS NO, NOT ON
THE OFFICE SIDE.
>> I'M SORRY.
SORRY SORRY.
THERE IS THERE IS THERE IS
BOMBED IN FOUR INCHES FROM THE
EXISTING QUARTER AND I SHOULD
ADD THAT WHEN THE APPLICANTS
INQUIRED ABOUT THIS AND I TOLD
THEM THEY NEEDED A BUMP IN I
STAFF THINKS IT'S OK TO JUST
HAVE FOUR INCHES HERE BECAUSE
IT'S ONLY A SINGLE STORY ED.
AND YOU CAN SEE THE CORNER ALL
THE WAY UP TO THE SECOND FLOOR.
SO LET'S SEE EXISTING SOUTH
ELEVATION A COUPLE OF WINDOWS
TO BE REMOVED THIS IS THE DOOR
AND WINDOWS.
ALL THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
REPLACED SO SOME OF OUR OUR OUR
THE OPENINGS HAVE BEEN CHANGED
LIKE I'D BE VERY SURPRISED IF
THIS YOU KNOW, HALFMOON WAS
PRESENT DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE PROBABLY WHEN
IT GOT REMODELED WHENEVER ALL
THOSE WINDOWS WERE REPLACED.
I WOULD SUSPECT THAT THAT GOT
PUT IN.
THIS IS THE LITTLE ADDITION HIP
ROOF THAT THAT THAT CLEARS THE
UPSTAIRS WINDOW.
OH, EVEN THE DRYER IS ON HERE.
I LOVE THAT.
>> IT'S WHEN WHEN CONTRACTORS
COME IN FOR PERMITS IF I SEE
THE DRYER I CAN JUST SIGN OFF
ON IT.
>> OTHERWISE I HAVE TO SAY NO
YOU HAVE TO GO BACK AND GET A
PERMIT HGC APPROVAL FOR THE
DRYER VENT THE PREDATORS HAVE A
TRANSAM OVER THE TOP A COUPLE
OF NEW LIGHT FIXTURES.
>> IT IS A IT IS A PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE TO THIS
ELEVATION BUT IT'S STUFFING'S
IT'S ENTIRELY COMPATIBLE AND
IT'S VISIBLE BUT IT'S A CORNER
LOT AND YOU'RE KIND OF STUCK
WITH THAT ON A CORNER LOT.
THERE'S REALLY NO GETTING
AROUND EXISTING BASEMENT WINDOW
GETTING MOVED OVER HERE TO A
NEW BASEMENT WINDOW.
IT'S WIDER THAN THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENT BUT BECAUSE THIS
OPENING IS ALREADY A DOUBLE
WIDTH I THINK THAT THAT'S STILL
COMPATIBLE.
HERE'S THE KITCHEN WINDOW
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE REMOVED
AND THEN REARRANGED HERE SINCE
THIS PART OF THE HOUSE IS
REALLY NOT VISIBLE FROM THE
STREET, YOU WOULD HAVE TO I
MEAN IF YOU LOOK DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY AND REALLY LOOK FOR
IT, YOU COULD PROBABLY SEE THAT
WINDOW.
BUT STEPH DOESN'T HAVE ANY
CONCERNS ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
WINDOW BEING CHANGED EXISTING
NORTH ELEVATION PROPOSED MUCH
MORE PROPORTIONAL EXISTING
FRONT PROPOSED WITH THIS NEW
WINDOW HERE AND THE NEW
ELEVATION OVER HERE, NEW
ADDITIONS
RENDERING WOULD LOOK
LIKE
THERE IS WINDOW
INFORMATION.
I DIDN'T INCLUDE ALL OF IT IN
HERE.
I JUST WANTED TO REMEMBER TO
POINT IT OUT FOR THE VARIOUS
STYLES OF WINDOWS THAT ARE
BEING PROPOSED.
AND HERE'S A DRAWING OF THE
TWELVE PATIO.
LITTLE MORE INFORMATION ON THAT
THE THE SIDE WALLS OF THE NEW
PORCH LANDING WOULD BE THESE
WALL BLOCKS AND THERE'S
REPRESENTATIVE PATIO PAVERS
WHICH IS ALL VERY COMPATIBLE.
YOU CAN SEE THERE'S A FEW STEPS
UP HERE.
I CAN'T READ THAT DIMENSION SO
I'M NOT SURE IF THERE'S A
THERE'S GOING TO BE A GUARDRAIL
REQUIREMENT OR NOT BUT IT'S NOT
SHOWN.
SO I'M GUESSING IT'S PROBABLY
NOT SIXTEEN TWENTY FOUR.
>> OK, I HAVE READ TO YOU
STANDARDS TWO AND FIVE AND NINE
AND TEN ALREADY I'VE GONE
THROUGH MOST OF THESE
GUIDELINES.
I WILL STOP AT ANY THAT I
HAVEN'T READ TO YOU YET.
SIZE IS OBVIOUSLY VERY LIMITED
.
THE EDITION DOES IS DESIGNED IN
A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR
WHAT'S HISTORIC AND WHAT'S NEW
BY SIZE AND MATERIALS AND
WINDOW STYLE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
INSTALL ADDITIONAL WINDOWS ON
REAR OR OTHER NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATIONS REQUIRED BY
THE NEW USE.
I WAS THINKING SPECIFICALLY
OF THAT KITCHEN WINDOW FOR THAT
ONE THOUGH THE WINDOWS ARE NOT
ON THE REAR OR NON CHARACTER
DEFINING ELEVATION OF THE SUN
PORCH WITH THE SUN PORCH ITSELF
IS USED TO BE AN OPEN PORCH SO
IT'S IT'S ALMOST TREATED LIKE A
NEW ADDITION RATHER THAN A
HISTORIC PART OF THE HOUSE
EXCEPT FOR ITS MARSING
BEDS.
ARE ALL THESE OK STAFF DOES
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT NOT I
WANT TO ADD I I'M THE MOST
HAPPY ABOUT HOW THE FILLED IN
PORK'S SECURE ON-STREET CAN BE
CHANGED.
DOES AN IMMENSE AMOUNT FOR THIS
BUILDING.
IT REALLY THAT'S A PART WHERE
YOU LOOK AT IT IT'S A BEAUTIFUL
HOUSE AND THAT REALLY CRIPPLES
IT.
SO YEAH AND IT'S VERY EXPOSED.
IT SEEMS MUCH MORE EXPOSED THAN
EVEN A NORMAL CORNER HOUSE.
IT'S LIKE THERE'S NO BACK TO
THIS HOUSE.
EVERY SIDE IS OK.
>> THANK YOU.
>> IS THE APPLICANT HERE GREAT.
PLEASE COME FORWARD AT THIS
TIME PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE
UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK AND
PLEASE ANY COMMENTS WOULD BE
GREAT.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS NEIL HUNGARIA.
I LIVE AT TWO FIVE EIGHT EIGHT
EASY STREET ANN FOR ONE ZERO
FOUR.
I THANK YOU JILL FOR YOUR
REPORT.
I JUST WANT TO ADD TO THAT IN
SUMMARY WE FEEL THAT WE ARE
IMPROVING THE OVERALL FUNCTION
OF THE HOME AND THE ESTHETICS
WHILE BEING RESPECTFUL OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES.
I ALSO WANT TO ADD THAT
CURRENTLY THE ONLY WAY THAT OUR
CLIENTS CAN GET TO THEIR BACK
YARD IS BY EXITING THE EAST
ELEVATION WALKING AROUND
THROUGH THEIR DRIVEWAY AND
GETTING IN THROUGH THE GATE SO
HAVING ACCESS TO THEIR
ESSENTIALLY THEIR BACK YARD IS
VERY IMPORTANT TO THEM.
>> ALSO WE FEEL THAT THE DINING
ROOM AND THE KITCHEN THE DINING
ROOM IS ADEQUATELY SIZED.
HOWEVER THE KITCHEN IS VERY
SMALL FOR TODAY'S STANDARDS
WHICH IS THE REASON FOR THE
BUMP OUT ON THE SOUTH ELEVATION
.
WE ARE MOVED.
WE ARE MAKING IMPROVEMENTS ALSO
FOR THE EGRESS.
AS JILL SAID, THE ONLY WAY TO
GET TO THE EGRESS WINDOW FROM
THE BASEMENT IS THROUGH THE
BATHROOM SO IT WILL NOW BE
MOVED INTO THE MAIN SPACE
OF THE BASEMENT AND AGAIN TO
THE PORCH THAT WAS INFELD THAT
CREATED A MASSING THAT IS NOT
COMPATIBLE WITH THE REST OF THE
HOUSE.
SO WHY CREATE BY CHANGING THE
WINDOWS AROUND WE FEEL THAT
WE'RE BEING RESPECTFUL OF THE
EXISTING ARCHITECTURAL STYLE
AND ALSO THE STYLE OF THE
WINDOWS WILL MATCH WHAT IS
THERE?
THAT IS ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
I HAD A QUICK QUESTION AND THIS
IS A GOOD PHOTO FOR IT.
I KNOW YOUR PROPOSAL SAYS THAT
THERE THEY'RE GOING TO GET A
NEW FOUNDATION AND I SEE THE
CLADDING IS COMING ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO GRADE IS IT LOOKS LIKE
THAT'S JUST GOING TO CONTINUE
ON THE NEW ELEVATIONS.
>> IT'S PRETTY MUCH GOING TO
MATCH WHAT WE'RE SEEING IN THE
PHOTO.
IS THAT THE PLAN OK?
YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT.
WE'RE OUR PLAN IS TO EXACTLY
MATCH WHAT'S THERE YEAH.
THERE'S WE FEEL THERE'S A
SAFETY ISSUE WITH THE FLOATER
SYSTEM WHICH LEADS US TO
BELIEVING THAT THE FOUNDATION
SYSTEM IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
SO IN TURN WE WILL ALSO REBUILD
THE WALLS AND LEAVE THE
HISTORIC ROOF INTACT COMPLETELY
MAKING IMPROVEMENTS
ESTHETICALLY TO THE EXTERIOR
WALLS ALSO ENSURING THAT THE
SPACE IS FULLY INSULATED AND
BUILT TO TODAY'S STANDARDS.
>> VERY GOOD.
DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR NEIL?
JUST GOING TO CHECK MY NOTES
REAL QUICK.
>> I HAVE THERE'S SOMETHING IN
THE PROPOSAL THAT I THINK THIS
IS MAYBE JUST LIKE A SIDE NOTE
OR SOMETHING BUT I JUST WANTED
TO BE SURE IT AS OWNERS PLAN TO
REPLACE THE BALANCE OF THE
EXISTING WINDOWS IN THE FUTURE
WITH THE SAME ANDERSON 400
SERIES TO MATCH, IS THAT A I
DON'T KNOW DOES THAT COUNT AS A
PROPOSAL?
I DON'T THINK I JUST DON'T WANT
YOU TO THINK THAT THAT COUNTS
AS SOMETHING UNLESS YOU WANTED
TO THEN WE CAN DISCUSS.
>> BUT I JUST I SAW THAT NOTE
THE REASON WHY I PUT THAT ON
THERE IS BECAUSE WE CHOSE THE
ANDERSON FOUR HUNDRED SERIES
FOR ALL OF THE NEW WINDOWS THAT
ARE GOING IN THE OWNERS DO PLAN
ON REPLACING THE REST OF THE
WINDOWS AND THEY DO PLAN ON
USING THIS SAME LINE OF WINDOWS
FOR THAT SO THEY WILL MATCH IN
THE FUTURE.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU NEAL.
THANK YOU.
YEAH OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
>> THIS IS ONE OF TWO KRESSE
AND I DON'T SEE ANYONE
APPROACHING THE PODIUM.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE REMOTELY
KNOW.
VERY GOOD.
OK, SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I'LL ASK IF
THERE'S A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION.
>> SURE.
I MOVE THAT TO THE COMMISSION
ISSUE CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT ONE OR TWO
CRESTA AVENUE A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ADD A 45
SQUARE FOOT ADDITION ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION INSTALL A NEW
PATIO DOOR AND REBUILT AND
REBUILD THE PATIO.
REMOVE THE BASEMENT EGRESS
WINDOW WELL AND INSTALL A NEW
SMALLER WINDOW, MODIFY A
BASEMENT WINDOW AND ADD A WELL
TO MAKE IT EGRESS COMPLIANT
INFILL TWO BASEMENT WINDOWS ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION RELOCATE
THE AIR CONDITIONING UNIT,
INFILL A SMALL KITCHEN WINDOW
AND REPLACE IT WITH A NARROW
HORIZONTAL WINDOW AND REBUILD
THE OFFICE WALLS AND FOUNDATION
AND INSTALL FOUR NEW WINDOWS AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND IT MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE NINE AND 10
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE ADDITIONS AND WINDOWS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GLINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS AND RESIDENTIAL
EDITIONS.
>> SECOND GREAT THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF ANYONE
HAS ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION.
OK, I'M NOT SEEING ANYTHING AND
I THINK THAT'S JUST BECAUSE THE
APPLICATION WAS VERY CLEAR AND
THOROUGH AND AND AS AS STAFF
ALREADY MENTIONED, IT'S JUST
REALLY APPRECIATE TO SEE SUCH A
SUCH A JUST A THOROUGH CLEAR
AND AND JUST ALL ROUND GREAT
APPLICATION THAT WE CAN GO
THROUGH AND AND WHAT THE THE
ACTUAL CONTENT OF THE
APPLICATION MEETS THE
STANDARDS.
THERE ARE SO MANY SMALL ITEMS
GOING ON BUT THEY THEY ALL SEEM
TO WORK AS A COHESIVE UNIT
HERE.
SO I'M NOT SEEING ANY OTHER
COMMENTS SO LET'S JUST MOVE
RIGHT TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
>> YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED TO THE MOTION
SAY NO.
>> OK, THE MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
PLEASE GET THE REQUIRED PERMITS
TO MAKE SURE THOSE PERMITS
MATCH WHAT WE'VE APPROVED
TODAY.
THANK YOU.
CAN I VERY GOOD.
OK SO NOW WE ARE MOVING ON TO
THE LAST HEARING OF THE EVENING
.
>> IT'S F FIVE TEN SEVENTEEN
WEST LIBERTY
RIGHT.
>> SO THIS STATELY HOUSE FIRST
APPEARS IN THE PUBLIC
DIRECTORIES IN NINETEEN TWENTY
EIGHT AS THE HOME OF JOHN HUSS
WHO WORKED IN REAL ESTATE MRS
HAS LIVED IN THE HOME UNTIL
THESE NINETEEN FORTY.
SOME OF THE SIGNIFICANT
FEATURES ON THE HOUSE INCLUDE
THE BRICK FOUNDATION FIRST
FLOOR WOOD SIDING ON THE SECOND
FLOOR SHALLOW SHED ROOF FACING
THE STREET OVER WALLED ARMORERS
EXPOSED RAFTER TALE'S AND A
STONE THREE CHORD WITH FRONT
PORCH SUPPORTING WITH
SUPPORTING SQUARE HALF COLUMNS
IN 2014 A SCREENED PORCH AT THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE WAS APPROVED
BY THE DC IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO
THE COMMISSION APPROVED THE
PAVING OF A STRIP BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
REPLACEMENT OF A PAIR OF WOOD
OVERHEAD GARAGE DOORS AND IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE THE HTC
APPROVED THE REPLACEMENT OF TWO
EIGHT FOOT GARAGE DOORS WITH
ONE SIXTEENTH GARAGE DOOR.
THE HOUSE IS LOCATED ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF WEST LIBERTY
STREET WEST OF E STREET AND
EAST OF EBRIGHT BOULEVARD.
>> THE APPLICANT SEEKS APPROVAL
TO REMOVE A DOOR ON THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE AND ENTER THE
OPENING WITH A BRICK LEAVING A
ONE INCH RELIEF TO SHOW WHERE
THE DOOR ONCE EXISTED
.
>> SO THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE PORCH AND THIS IS THE
DOOR IN QUESTION RIGHT HERE AT
THE REAR OF THE HOUSE AND THEN
RIGHT NEXT TO IT YOU SEE THIS
IS THE PORCH THAT WAS APPROVED
BY THE HGC AGAIN JUST CLOSE UP
THE DOOR.
IT IS THOUGHT TO BE AN ORIGINAL
OPENING AND AN ORIGINAL DOOR
THERE YOU CAN SEE THE PANEL
WITH DOOR WITH THE WHITE.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT A BETTER VIEW
OF THE ENTIRE BACK OF THE HOUSE
.
SO THE FRONT RIGHT HERE ON
LIBERTY THIS IS THE SIDE AND
THEN HERE YOU HAVE THE REAR,
THE DRIVEWAY, THE PORCH AND
THEN AGAIN THIS IS THE DOOR IN
QUESTION AND THEN THE APPLICANT
IS PROPOSING TO BREAK IN THE
DOOR TO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
BETTER USE OF THE INTERIOR
SPECIFICALLY OF THE KITCHEN,
MOVING SOME STAIRS AROUND,
MOVING SOME INTERIOR WALLS
AROUND.
BUT THE ONLY EXTERIOR WORK THAT
WILL BE DONE
WILL BE BREAKING
IN THE DOOR AND FILLING THE
OPENING THE OPENING SIDES WILL
NOT CHANGE AND THE BRICK AT THE
INFO WILL BE MATCHING OR AS
SIMILAR AS POSSIBLE AND THERE
WILL BE THAT ONE INCH REALLY TO
SHOW WHERE THE HISTORIC OPENING
ONCE WAS.
YOU'VE ALREADY GONE THROUGH
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND ONE
TO NINE FOR ENTRANCES AND
PORCHES FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
OR RADICALLY CHANGE ENTRANCES
AND PORCHES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT
IN DEFINING THE OVERALL
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING WHICH I DON'T BELIEVE
THAT THIS IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING DOOR OR OPENING ON THE
BUILDING FROM OUR OWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
DOORS IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
RETAIN, REPAIR AND MAINTAIN
ORIGINAL DOORS, HARDWARE AND
TRIM AND IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE
TO ENLARGE, REDUCE OR OTHERWISE
CHANGE THE DOOR OPENING SIZE.
GO BACK TO OUR PHOTOS I THINK
JUST A FEW MORE COMMENTS AGAIN
THIS IS A VERY CHILLY
UTILITARIAN DOOR.
THERE'S NOT ANY DECORATIVE
ELEMENTS AROUND IT EVEN THOUGH
IT DOES APPEAR TO BE AN
ORIGINAL DOOR AND AN ORIGINAL
OPENING LOCATED ON THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE.
SO NOT VERY VISIBLE AT ALL AND
STAFF FEELS THAT THE PROPOSED
INFILL LEAVING THE RELIEF AND
USING MATCHING A SIMILAR BRICK
IS APPROPRIATE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> LET'S NOW HEAR FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
NOT MUCH TO ADD TO THAT.
THIS WAS TOTALLY
STRAIGHTFORWARD MAKES SENSE
WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO DO IT
HELPS WITH HOW THE INTERIOR
OF THE HOUSE LAYS LAYS OUT AND
IS OBVIOUSLY THE OTHER ENTRANCE
RIGHT THERE.
BUT I THINK YOU KNOW, DEMARKED
WHERE THE THE DOOR WAS WITHIN
PHILBRICK WITH THE RECESSIVE IS
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
>> OK WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
COME FORWARD AT THIS TIME.
>> PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE
FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK.
>> YOU HAVE ANY COMMENTS?
MY NAME IS GREG SMITH.
I LIVE AT TEN SEVENTEEN WEST
LIBERTY HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE PURCHASED THE HOUSE TWO AND
A HALF YEARS AGO AND CONTINUE
TO WORK ON IT.
MY WIFE AND I PROBABLY HAVE
NINETY EIGHT PERCENT OF OUR
MEALS AT HOME THAT WE WE
PREPARE OURSELVES AND THE
KITCHEN IS EFFECTIVELY ALMOST
FUNCTIONAL FOR ONE PERSON IT'S
NOT AT ALL FUNCTIONAL FOR TWO
PEOPLE BECAUSE THE STAIRS GOING
FROM THE KITCHEN TO THE
BASEMENT TAKE UP ROUGHLY ABOUT
FORTY PERCENT OF THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE KITCHEN WHICH IS ROUGHLY
TWELVE BY NINETEEN.
SO FOR US TO HAVE A KITCHEN
THAT'S FUNCTIONAL FOR US IN THE
WAY THAT WE COOK AND HOW MUCH
WE USE THE HOUSE, THE ONLY
RATIONAL THING TO DO IS TO MOVE
THE STAIRCASE AND STACK IT
UNDERNEATH THE STAIRCASE GOING
TO THE SECOND STORY AND
THEREFORE OPEN IT UP AND
COMPLETELY REBUILD THE KITCHEN
TO DO THAT WE NEED TO REMOVE
THAT ONE DOOR AND BRICK IT IN
AND OUR COMMITMENT IS TO FIND
IT POSSIBLE THE SAME TYPE
OF BRICK SO IT MATCHES THE
EXISTING BRICK FACADE.
>> VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OK, I ASSUME WE DON'T HAVE
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
RIGHT.
SO THEN LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM
TEN SEVENTEEN WEST LIBERTY.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
>> THE'S NO ONE ELSE HERE SO
OK AND NO ONE REMOTELY GREAT.
>> SO THEN WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I WILL ASK IF
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION.
>> YES, I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TEN SEVENTEEN
WEST LIBERTY STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REMOVE A PERSON DOOR ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION AND INFILL THE
OPENING WITH BRICK LEAVING ONE
INCH RELIEF TO SHOW WHERE THE
DOOR ONCE EXISTED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR ONE,
TWO AND NINE AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR ENTRANCES AND PORCHES AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES
PARTICULARLY AS THEY PERTAIN TO
RESIDENTIAL DOORS.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
GRADE THAT WAS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN?
I THINK WE HAVE A VERY CLEAR
PROPOSAL HERE THAT MEETS THE
STANDARDS AND I WOULD GUESS
THAT WE'RE ALL IN AGREEMENT
THERE.
SO LET'S GO RIGHT TO A VOTE.
>> ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED TO THE MOTION
SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST RECEIVE
ALL REQUIRED PERMITS BEFORE
BEGINNING THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU
.
OK, WE'RE JUST GETTING GOING
HERE THOUGH SO LET'S MOVE ON,
TAKE A BREATH AND GO TO G NEW
NEW BUSINESS IT LOOKS LIKE BUT
JI WON APPROVAL OF THE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MEETING CALENDAR
AND EVERYONE HAS A COPY OF THAT
BECAUSE MARIJANA PRINTED THAT
FOR US SO THANK YOU.
>> ARE WE SUPPOSED TO LOOK AT
THIS.
WELL YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO APPROVE
IT OK HERE THERE'S NOTHING
CRAZY ABOUT IT.
>> YOU GUYS DIDN'T GET BUMPED
BY ANY OTHER PEOPLE'S NAMES.
NO HOLIDAY FINE.
FINALLY.
YES I'M NOT SAYING IT WON'T
HAPPEN BUT IT LOOKS GOOD RIGHT
NOW.
>> WELL, VERY GOOD.
ARE THERE ANY ANY COMMENTS
HERE?
OK, SEE NO COMMENTS.
>> SHOULD WE VOTE ON THIS?
WE SHOULD MAKE A MOTION TO
APPROVE IT.
OK WHAT A NATION TO APPROVE THE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
SCHEDULE.
>> OH SECOND AND SECOND DID OK
THAT WAS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SMITH AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES YES YES YES TO VERY GOOD
AND THEN NOW WE'LL GO ON TO G
TO DESIGN GUIDELINES ASSIGNMENT
AND REVIEW SO THAT'S OVER TO
STAFF.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO START HERE WITH
THE ASSIGNMENT FOR NEXT MONTH'S
MEETING WHICH IS THE REAL MCCOY
.
CHAPTER THREE IS UP NEXT AND
THAT'S WHERE YOU WILL TACKLE
THE DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS WINDOWS CLADDING,
LIGHTING MASONRY ROOF SITE
FEATURES SOLAR PANELS AND MUCH,
MUCH MORE.
>> WE SPLIT THAT UP INTO TWO
MONTHS HERE.
QUITE HOW BIG IS IT?
I MEAN SHOULD WE YEAH.
IT'S IT'S LIKE TWENTY FIVE
PAGES AND SOUNDS LIKE A LOT I
MEAN SOME OF IT'S A LOT SOME
OF IT IS ALSO DESCRIPTIONS
OF ALL OF THE PARTS OF A WINDOW
RIGHT.
SO SOME PAGES GO FASTER.
WELL LET'S SEE HOW IT GOES
RIGHT NOW LET'S TRY TO TACKLE
IT.
>> YEAH OK I I DON'T THINK IT'S
PARTICULARLY EXTRA LONG OK SO I
SORT HAD TO GET USED TO THIS.
>> YEAH I'M JUST JUST GETTING
THE EXPECTATIONS SET AND WE'LL
IT'S GOING TO BE A LOT OF FUN.
>> YES OK MAN DO YOU HAVE THE
FILE OPEN.
>> I'M OPENING IT RIGHT NOW
RIGHT THANK YOU.
SO THIS MONTH YOU WERE ASSIGNED
ONE AND TWO I BELIEVE CORRECT.
YES AND WE'LL PUT IT UP ON THE
SCREEN IN A SEC.
DID ANYONE HAVE ANY BETTER OR
WORSE LUCK WITH THE DOCUMENT
ITSELF READING IT, COMMENTING
IN IT BECAUSE MARIANNE HAS BEEN
ALL OVER THAT I WAS ABLE TO
COMMENT IN IT BUT FOR SOME
REASON WHEN I COMMENTED LAST
MONTH IT STUCK MY EMAIL ADDRESS
IN THERE AUTOMATICALLY AND THEN
THIS MONTH I JUST TYPED MY NAME
IN BECAUSE I COULD TELL IT
WASN'T I WAS AGAINST YOUR FOR
SOME REASON I MEAN IT DIDN'T
BOTHER ME THE OPERATION WAS
FINE BUT I JUST PUT MY NAME IN
THERE.
OK, OK.
ALL RIGHT SO LET'S JUST MAKE
SURE I CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE
IT'S YOUR DOCUMENTS SO LET'S
JUST SCROLL THROUGH IT AND SEE
IF YOU SEE THINGS THAT STAFF
HAS EDITED THAT YOU WANT TO
TALK ABOUT.
JUST STOP US IF YOU AND IF WE
SEE SOME NEW COMMENTS WE'LL
TAKE A LOOK.
AND IF YOU HAVE SOMETHING ELSE
THAT YOU WANT TO THROW OUT
RIGHT NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME
THAT'S GREAT SINCE A LOT
OF THESE WERE JUST HISTORIC
BUILDING STYLES AND DETAILS,
THEY HAVEN'T REALLY YEAH,
WHOEVER DID THIS INITIAL WORK
DID A PRETTY GOOD JOB, RIGHT?
YEAH, I LOOK AT IT FROM THE
FACT THAT SOMETHING OH THAT'S
AN IDEA FOR AN EASTER EGG
ASSIGNMENT, HUH?
WHEN DEALING WITH ALL OF THE
PHOTOS AND COMMENTS BELOW THE
PHOTOS, SIDEBAR ILLUSTRATIONS
AND THINGS THAT
MAN WE'RE JUST
WE'RE JUST GOING TO HAVE TO
REDO ALL THAT.
>> SO YEAH, HAVE WE PASSED ANY
OF YOUR COMMENTS YET?
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THIS IS
THE DOCUMENT THAT YOU COMMENTED
IN OR ANYONE ELSE I KNOW I SAW
THEM WHEN I WAS LOOKING AT THE
WEB VERSION.
YOU DON'T HAVE IT TURN OUT.
DO YOU HAVE TO CLICK COMMENTS
ON THE TOP?
YEAH, GOOD CATCH BOTH OF YOU
OK?
YEAH.
SO HOW ABOUT WE FINISH
SCROLLING THROUGH I DON'T KNOW
IF THE YEAH SO YOU YOU DIDN'T
COME INTO A LITTLE BIT LATER SO
WE'LL JUST FINISH GOING THROUGH
THE STYLES I THINK MOSTLY
GRAMMATICAL CHANGES MAYBE SOME
SPECIFICATIONS AND THERE WILL
BE SOME PHOTO UPDATES.
>> I MEAN I THINK BIGGER PHOTOS
WOULD BE OK RIGHT THERE.
>> THERE'S THIS LITTLE
THUMBNAILS THERE IT'S KIND
OF NOT VERY HELPFUL.
YES.
YOU KNOW TO THE USER AND
OF COURSE SOME OF THEM BACK THE
TEXT IT AND THEN I GUESS ONE
OF THE BIGGER ADDITIONS IS THE
HAYDEN HOUSE.
>> YEAH.
SO YOU HAD A COMMENT HERE
INSTEAD OF ALPHABETICAL WOULD
IT MAKE SENSE TO DISCUSS ONE
FOUR AND SIX ALL TOGETHER MAYBE
LISTING THE DISTRICTS IN ORDER
OF ADOPTION?
WELL, YOU KNOW, I JUST STARTED
WAS LOOKING AT THIS AND THEN
WENT TO THE NEXT PAGE AND READ
AND ST- AND THEN IT JUST
THERE'S NOT LIKE A FLOW TO THIS
NEXT SEVERAL PARTS BECAUSE
YOU'RE JUST KIND OF HOPPING
AROUND AND THAT'S MAYBE FINE.
BUT I ALSO THOUGHT MAYBE IF IF
IT'S EASY TO SOMEHOW GROUP THEM
IN A DIFFERENT WAY THEN LIKE
THE DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
ARE ALL TOGETHER.
>> THERE'S THE OLD FOURTH WARD
AND STREET AND AND DIVISION
STREET THAT ARE ALL KIND
OF CONTIGUOUS.
SO THAT WAS ONE THOUGHT THAT
MAYBE THAT WOULD READ BETTER IF
THEY WERE ALL TOGETHER AND THEN
A COMPLETELY SEPARATE THOUGHT I
HAD WHEN I WAS GOING THROUGH IT
WAS WELL MAYBE JUST READING
THROUGH IT CHRONICLES LOGICALLY
FROM LIKE OLDEST TO NEWEST
WOULD BE OLDEST BUILDING
ADOPTED.
JUST ADOPTED YEAH.
LIKE THIS WAS ADOPTED LIKE THIS
WAS THE FIRST HISTORIC DISTRICT
ADOPTED IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS WAS THE SECOND ONE, YOU
KNOW, CHRONOLOGICALLY OLDEST TO
NEWEST WAS JUST A YOU KNOW IT
SEEMED EITHER OF THOSE SEEM
MAYBE ONE STEP UP FROM JUST
ALPHABETICAL.
SO YOU KNOW, I I'M JUST SAYING
THAT COMMENT WITHOUT OK IS EASY
TO DO.
IF THAT'S NOT EASY TO DO THEN
YEAH IT'S NOT ADDING SO MUCH TO
THE EXPERIENCE BUT MAYBE IF
IT'S EASY IT WOULD ADD A LITTLE
IF YOU'RE JUST READING IT AS A
HISTORY THE INTEREST OF HISTORY
OR SOMETHING IS THAT'S WHAT
THIS IS REALLY ABOUT.
IT'S IT'S NOT HELPING YOU
DESIGN YOUR PROJECT.
>> IT'S JUST GIVING YOU THE
HISTORY.
YEAH.
IT'S INTERESTING.
>> YEAH.
I TOTALLY AGREE THAT THIS IS
NOT WELL ORGANIZED.
THIS THE MAP IS CHAOTIC AND THE
LABELS DON'T YEAH.
SO GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE COMMENTS AS
ARE HELPFUL.
RIGHT WE'LL MOVE ON DOWN
AND
NOTHING IN THE STREET AND THEN
IN THE BROADWAY HISTORIC
DISTRICT I BELIEVE THIS IS
AGAIN YEAH I HAVE I PUT MY NAME
IN THERE I THOUGHT ANYWAY YEAH
THAT'S ME.
>> YEAH I JUST THE FIRST
SENTENCE YOU KNOW THERE'S A LOT
OF FACTS THAT FOLLOW THAT
SENTENCE AND THAT SENTENCE
THOUGH FELT LIKE WELL DID IT IS
THIS TRUE AND IF IT IS TRUE
IT'S IT'S INTERESTING.
THAT'S WHY I SAID THIS IS AN
INTERESTING STATEMENT BUT I
DON'T REALLY KNOW WITH JUST
SAYING THAT WITHOUT BACKING IT
UP WITH EITHER A REALLY SOLID
SOURCE OR WELL IT DOES SOMEHOW
YOU WHAT THE DIVERSE RANGE
OF RESIDENTS ARE WE TALKING?
WELL, I THINK THAT'S WHAT I
FIND MOST MAYBE POLITICALLY.
>> YEAH.
AND LIKE OBVIOUSLY PEOPLE WERE
BUILDING THERE SO DEVELOPMENT
PRESSURE FROM WHO IT JUST
SEEMED LIKE IT KIND OF GAVE ME
LIKE AN ICKY FEELING AND AND
THEN JUST WAS LIKE I DON'T I
DON'T REALLY KNOW IF THAT
BELONGS GOOD GOOD
.
>> AND CONTINUING I'M NOT MUCH
HAS CHANGED MAPS AND HISTORIES
AND MAKE SURE I DON'T LIKE UM
ADDING A FEW CLARIFICATIONS FOR
THINGS THAT OUR NATIONAL
REGISTER LISTED VERSUS LOCALLY
.
HM.
SO LONG AS WE'VE DEFINED THAT
DIFFERENCE IN THE INTRO.
YEAH THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
UM AND THEN WE HAVE HERE IN
STATE STREET OR IN THE DOWNTOWN
MAYBE WITH SMART SO JUST A UH
CHANGE OF SENTENCE.
>> OH YEAH.
LIKE NICHOLS' ARCADE A UNIQUE
TYPE OF COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
IN OUR AREA.
I JUST FELT LIKE WE COULD GET A
LITTLE MORE SPECIFIC THERE AND
DESCRIBE IT.
I SAID LIKE A SMALL COMMERCIAL
STOREFRONTS WITH AN INTERIOR
MALL CONNECTING THE STREETS AT
THE CENTER OF THE BLOCK,
SOMETHING THAT IS JUST ONE
LEVEL OF SPECIFICITY MORE THAN
A YOU KNOW, A UNIQUE TYPE
OF COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
IT JUST SEEMED LIKE NICHOLS
ARCADE DESERVED DESERVED THAT
DESERVED BETTER.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU
AGAIN.
>> PROBABLY WILL BE SOME
REARRANGING OF PHOTOS AND MAPS
.
LET ME HAVE HAINAN HOUSE ALL
TAKEN FROM JOE'S LOVELY
RESEARCH AND THEN THIS WAS ONE
OF THE ADDITIONS THAT WE
THOUGHT WOULD BE HELPFUL IS
HAVING SOMETHING TO DIRECT
PEOPLE TO WHEN THEY WANT TO DO
THEIR OWN RESEARCH AND FIND OUT
HOW WE FIGURE OUT WHAT'S
HISTORIC AND WHAT'S NOT
HISTORIC.
SO IF ANYONE HAD ANY COMMENTS
YOU CAN READ THROUGH IT NOW WE
HAVE SOME COMMENTS HERE.
>> OH, YOU GOT YOUR NAME?
>> YEAH, THOSE WERE FROM LAST
MONTH.
I MEAN I IN I DID THOSE FROM A
DIFFERENT LINK SO THAT'S WHY I
GOT MY EMAIL ADDRESS IN.
BUT YEAH, I JUST I LOVE THIS
PAGE.
I THINK GOING TO BE REALLY
HELPFUL ESPECIALLY FOR STAFF TO
DIRECT PEOPLE TO YOU KNOW AND
IT'S GOING TO BE OUT THERE AND
SO THERE ARE THERE ARE LINKS
LIKE THERE ARE ONLINE LINKS TO
SOME OF THE SANDBORN MAPS.
SO I THOUGHT THAT THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO ADD HERE.
UNFORTUNATELY.
I MEAN IT'S KIND OF COOL THAT
THEY HAVE STARTING FROM THE
EARLIEST ONES BUT THE LIKE
REALLY THE MOST USEFUL ONE IS
THE ONE THEY'RE ALL USEFUL.
THE MOST USEFUL ONE IS THE ONE
I DON'T HAVE.
>> YEAH BUT STILL YEAH IT'S
IT'S NICE TO HAVE A STARTING
POINT THERE AND THEN THE OTHER
COMMENT IS THE ONE THAT I USE A
LOT IS THE 1947 AERIAL PHOTO
BUT I COULD NOT FIND A WAY TO
LINK TO IT.
>> THAT LINK IS ALWAYS CHANGING
ANYWAY BECAUSE IT'S LIKE IT'S
THE COUNTY YEAH IT'S THE WASH
SO MAYBE JUST GIVE THEM E
WASHTENAW AND GOOD LUCK OR
SOMETHING BUT DIRECT THEM TO
THAT.
YEAH.
AERIAL PHOTO YEAH THAT'S A GOOD
RESOURCE AND I MEAN WE HAVE I
DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH OF IT IS
PUBLIC SINCE THE BUT I MEAN ALL
THE AREAS BECAUSE WE HAVE
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN TO TWENTY
THREE THEY'RE ALL ON THE GIS
RIGHT WEBSITE SO YEAH I THINK
THAT YEAH THAT THAT WOULD BE A
GREAT ADDITION BECAUSE THOSE
ARE I MEAN WE USED THOSE
TONIGHT.
>> YEAH.
DID ANYONE HAVE ANYTHING ELSE
ESPECIALLY ON THIS IS THIS IS
NEW THAT'S THINGS WE CAN THINGS
THAT YOU FIND HELPFUL OR NOT
HELPFUL.
JUST BACK TO THE SANBORN'S DO
YOU HAVE THEM IN PDF FORMAT AND
POSSIBLE TO INCLUDE THOSE AS AN
APPENDIX OR SOMEWHERE?
NO THEY'RE COPYRIGHTED RIGHT.
SO I CANNOT I CAN'T SAY WHERE
MINE CAME FROM ON TELEVISION.
UNDERSTOOD.
I MEAN THE LINK TO THE LIBRARY
OF CONGRESS THAT SEEMS PRETTY
GOOD.
PRETTY GOOD IF YOU'RE A U OF M
STUDENT FACULTY OR STAFF YOU
CAN GET THROUGH THE UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS HAS THAT
ALSO RIGHT.
AND THE PUBLIC LIBRARY THE
ANNENBERG PUBLIC LIBRARY.
>> YEAH.
SO DOES THAT IS THAT MENTIONED
IN HERE THAT REAL COPIES
SANBORN'S AND PUBLIC
DIRECTORIES AND THE MIGHT AS
WELL AS DIGITIZED.
>> YEAH.
ARE THEY DID THEY'RE NOT ON
MICROFICHE ANYMORE.
THEY MIGHT THEY ARE THOSE ARE
YOUR OPTIONS ARE PHYSICAL OR
YEAH OK BUT YOU CAN GET YOU CAN
GET THEM YOU CAN SEE THEM I
MEAN IT'S COOL TO LOOK AT THE
PHYSICAL COPY RIGHT OK AND IT
SAYS
HERE THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY HAS COPIES
OF THE SAME WAR MAPS.
GREAT.
OK ALL RIGHT.
>> ANYTHING ELSE FOR CHAPTER
ONE THOUGHTS ON THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT HISTORIES, MAPS,
STYLES, HISTORIES.
I HAD ONE COMMENT.
I THINK THIS IS MORE
APPROPRIATE PROBABLY FOR LAST
MONTH BUT I WASN'T HERE AND
I'VE JUST SEEN SEVERAL THINGS
FROM THE CITY THAT HAS LIKE A
LAND ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND JUST
DOES SOMEONE KNOW THIS YOU KNOW
THAT'S APPROPRIATE FOR THIS
NEWSLETTER OR NOT OR IS IT UP
TO INDIVIDUALS OR SOMETHING OR
DOES ONE BELONG IN THIS
DOCUMENT OR NOT?
WE CAN FIND OUT WHEN AND WHERE
THEY'RE USED.
THERE IS A PERSON AT THE CITY
WHO WOULD KNOW THAT OK, YEAH,
THAT'S A GOOD WE'LL FIND THEM.
>> I REMEMBER YOU ALSO SAYING
DAVE IN AN EMAIL TO STAFF A
THOUGHT ABOUT INCLUDING
INFORMATION ON THE NOW
DISSOLVED DISTRICT
OF INDIVIDUALS RESOURCES.
DO PEOPLE HAVE THOUGHTS ON
WHETHER THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL
OR NOT HELPFUL TO INCLUDE?
>> I THINK AS PART OF THE
SECTION OF WHEN WE'RE YEAH LIKE
THIS IS THE HISTORY OF ANN
ARBOR OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS IN
ANN ARBOR.
I WAS THINKING THAT I MEAN
THAT'S PART OF THE HISTORY
THEY'RE NOT DOES EVERYONE KNOW
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT?
>> SO I WILL I WON'T GET IT
RIGHT.
OH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
THERE WAS AN INDIVIDUAL
HISTORIC PROPERTIES HISTORIC
DISTRICT THAT WAS A LOCAL
DISTRICT THAT HAD ABOUT FIFTY
OF AMERICA'S MOST SPECTACULAR
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND IT WAS
CHALLENGED IN A LAWSUIT AND THE
CITY LOST BECAUSE THE BUILDINGS
WERE NOT CONTIGUOUS.
THERE WERE ALL OVER THE CITY SO
THOSE WENT AWAY.
WE STILL HAVE ALL THE
DOCUMENTATION AND WE USE IT
SOMETIMES WITH STUDY COMMITTEE
REPORT MAPS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
I WOULDN'T WANT TO PUT THAT MAP
UP SINCE IT'S BEEN GONE SINCE
2001 THAT DISTRICT BUT IT'S
CERTAINLY WORTH AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE PAGE SAYING HEY LOOK,
WE'VE GOT ALL THIS INFORMATION
ON THIS OTHER DISTRICT TOO THAT
DOESN'T EXIST ANYMORE.
YEAH, THERE'S ALSO A CENTRAL
CAMPUS HISTORIC DISTRICT RIGHT
IN THE MIDDLE OF CENTRAL CAMPUS
THAT IS A LOCAL HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
OBVIOUSLY WE'RE NOT REVIEWING
WORK IN THAT DISTRICT FOR THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT WHICH YOU
KNOW, I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW HOW
THAT CAME ABOUT.
PROBABLY SOMEBODY AT THE
UNIVERSITY INITIATED IT,
THOUGHT IT WAS COOL.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO
INCLUDE A REFERENCE TO THAT
SINCE IT DOES EXIST.
YEAH, I THINK IN ADDITION TO
THE NATIONAL YEAH YEAH YEAH
SURE.
>> RIGHT NOW I WOULD THINK THAT
IF THERE'S DISCUSSION YOU KNOW
TALKING ABOUT THE DISSOLVE THE
INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY DISTRICT I
THINK IT IT SHOULD BE EXPLAINED
WHY IT WAS DISSOLVED YOU KNOW
HEY YEAH THIS WAS CHALLENGED IN
COURT AND THEREFORE STATE
COURT.
YEAH YEAH YEAH I WAS A LITTLE
IF THE PURPOSE OF THIS DOCUMENT
IS FOR PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES ARE
AND WHAT THE CITY REQUIREMENTS
ARE NOW I THINK THAT'S KIND
OF OPENING A CAN OF WORMS.
I DON'T THINK IT'S RELEVANT TO
THE PRIMARY PURPOSE.
I MEAN THE PRIMARY PURPOSE IS
AN TO GO THROUGH THE HISTORY
OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION IN OUR
AND I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT TO
START OUT WITH HOW YOU HOW YOU
CHALLENGE AND GET THEM REMOVED
.
>> YEAH.
YEAH, THAT'S TRUE.
WELL, I THINK THAT THAT'S A
GOOD POINT.
I MEAN I ASKED THE QUESTION
TODAY THAT I THOUGHT JILL
ANSWERED VERY WELL WHICH IS WHY
DO WE HAVE OUR OWN DESIGN
GUIDELINES WHEN WE HAVE THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
AND AS JILL EXPLAINED, IT'S TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR APPLICANTS
ON WHAT THEY SHOULD HAVE IN
THEIR THEIR PROJECTS SO AS I
THINK ABOUT THAT, I THINK YOU
KNOW, CATHY'S RIGHT.
WE DON'T NEED TO FULLY ACCOUNT
FOR WHAT HAPPENED BEFORE.
THAT'S NOT THERE ANYMORE.
>> THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS
DOCUMENT IS.
THIS IS A HEY, TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS TO WORK ON YOUR PROJECT
AND SO IT'S REALLY JUST DO
THESE THINGS LIKE THESE ARE
APPROPRIATE THINGS.
THESE AREN'T APPROPRIATE
THINGS.
AND YOU KNOW, IF THERE IS A
SEPARATE WAY YOU WANT TO, YOU
KNOW, MEMORIALIZE THAT STUFF
THEN THAT CAN BE DONE.
BUT I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO DO
THAT IN THIS PARTICULAR
DOCUMENT I COULD SEE MAYBE A
LINK TO SOME REFERENCE TO THERE
USED TO BE OTHER THINGS AND IF
YOU WANT TO KNOW ABOUT THAT,
CLICK HERE AND THEN YOU COULD
GET THE WHOLE HISTORY OF YEAH,
THOSE DISTRICTS ARE THE
PRESERVATION WEBSITE.
THERE'S A WHOLE SECTION
OF SURVEYS OR REPORTS AND
THEY'RE BOTH IN THERE WITH A
LITTLE EXPLANATION OF WHY
THEY'RE THERE.
OK, HOW SO IS THAT A YES OR NO
TO WHETHER IT'S A I GUESS A YES
TO A QUICK REFERENCE TO LIZ
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THE
DISSOLVED AND CENTRAL OFFICE OR
IS THAT A NO DON'T MENTION THEM
AT ALL.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE'S A NEED
TO MENTION THEM.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK THAT'S IT FOR CHAPTER
ONE.
THANK YOU.
AND WE'LL MOVE TO CHAPTER TWO
WHICH IS I THINK THE SHORTEST
CHAPTER ON
YOU GUYS.
WE'RE GOING TO ACCOMPLISH TWO
CHAPTERS TONIGHT
.
OH, ALL RIGHT.
SO MINIMAL CHANGES.
>> THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR HAS NOT HAD MANY
UPDATES.
UM, WE UPDATED SOME OF THE MORE
INFORMATION UM, NOTHING CHANGED
TO THE STANDARDS THEN WE ADDED
A LITTLE BIT MORE INFORMATION
ABOUT OTHER GUIDELINES THAT THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
OFFERS.
>> YEAH, I THOUGHT THIS WAS
GREAT AND I JUST MY COMMENT IS
JUST THAT THAT SENTENCE I THINK
IT WAS JUST A LITTLE LONG AND I
WAS TRYING FOR CLARITY, FOR
CLARITY SAKE TO EITHER EITHER
REMOVE THE WORD STILL THERE
BECAUSE IT WASN'T CLEAR WHAT
STILL WAS KIND OF REFERENCING
AT THAT POINT BECAUSE IT WAS
JUST THERE WERE SEVERAL THINGS
AND THEN OR JUST AND THE
SENTENCE SPECIFIC ANN ARBOR AND
THEN ADD ANOTHER SENTENCE THAT
SAYS SOMETHING LIKE THE
GUIDELINES SPECIFIC TO ANN
ARBOR COMPLY WITH THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS.
I GUESS IT WAS JUST A CLEAR
THING I WASN'T TRYING TO CHANGE
ANY MEANING OR ADD ANY MEANING
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> SO JUST YEAH, I GUESS THAT
IS THE KIND OF CHAPTER TWO
GRAVE I HAVE ONE MORE QUICK
COMMENT ON THIS ONE BUT CHIPS
THEY BROUGHT TO MIND TO ME WHEN
HE WAS ASKING HIS QUESTION
ABOUT THE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
THERE'S A LOT OF OVERLAP
BETWEEN OUR DESIGN GUIDELINES
AND THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES.
YOU SEE ALMOST EXACT WORDING IN
A LOT WHEN OUR DESIGN
GUIDELINES WERE WRITTEN IT WAS
PRESENTED AS SORT OF YOU KNOW,
WELL, IF PEOPLE ARE ONLY GOING
TO LOOK AT OUR DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND NOT LOOK AT THE
FEDERAL ONES BECAUSE THEY'RE
MORE SPECIFIC, DON'T WE?
SOME OF THAT TO REPEAT IN
THERE.
ON THE OTHER HAND, DRIVES ME A
LITTLE BIT CRAZY WHEN I'M
TRYING TO PULL OUT APPROPRIATE
GUIDELINES AND THEY'RE EXACTLY
THE SAME FOR BOTH THE DOCUMENTS
.
SO I THINK THAT WHEN WE'RE
GOING THROUGH THIS MONTH'S
ASSIGNMENT IN CHAPTER THREE,
I'M GOING TO HAVE AN EYE OUT
FOR JUST HOW MUCH OVERLAP
BETWEEN THE TWO AND MAYBE SEE
IF THOSE AREN'T THINGS THAT WE
CAN TAKE OUT WHILE STILL MAKING
REALLY CLEAR THAT YOU ALSO HAVE
TO LOOK AT THIS OTHER DOCUMENT
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT ALL IN
THERE.
SO YOU'RE GETTING SORT OF HALF
OF THE FEDERAL GUIDELINES BUT
NOT ALL OF THEM.
AND SO IF YOU HAVE ANY THOUGHTS
ON GREAT OTHERWISE WE CAN JUST
SEE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE NEXT
MONTH A BANDAGE.
>> I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I THINK AS
I WAS KIND OF ASKING THOSE BACK
QUESTION TODAY IS LIKE A LITTLE
BIT OF THE PRACTICALITY OF HOW
MUCH STUFF THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
TO LOOK AT FOR EVERY
APPLICATION YOU HAVE TO GO BACK
AND FORTH BETWEEN DIFFERENT
THINGS AND YOU'RE
PROFESSIONALS, YOU KNOW THESE
THINGS.
SO IT'S EASIER BUT BUT
NEVERTHELESS IT'S LIKE THESE
YOU GUYS DO AN AMAZING JOB ON
THESE STAFF REPORTS.
THEY'RE REALLY DETAILED.
THEY'RE REALLY IN DEPTH.
THEY'RE WAY MORE THAN MOST
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSIONS
GET TO SEE.
BUT YOU KNOW, AT SOME POINT
LIKE HOW DO YOU MAKE YOUR JOB
TO REVIEW THE STUFF A LITTLE
BIT EASIER BECAUSE WHAT YOU'RE
DOING IS MAKING OUR JOB EASIER.
AND YOU KNOW, MIKE, I ASKED
THAT QUESTION IS THERE A WAY
JUST TO GET ALL THE STUFF
TOGETHER?
SO THERE JUST AREN'T SO MANY
THINGS THAT PEOPLE HAVE TO
CLICK ON LINKS TO GO FROM ONE
TO THE OTHER AND YOU KNOW
WHETHER IT'S YOU OR AN
APPLICANT AND I DON'T HAVE AN
ANSWER TO THAT BUT I THINK IF
WE COULD KIND OF FIGURE THAT
ONE OUT THEN MAYBE WE
STREAMLINE YOUR PROCESS, WE
STREAMLINE THE APPLICATION
PROCESS, MAKE YOU KNOW, MORE
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT.
WE JUST GET BETTER PROJECT MY
HOPES AND DREAMS SOMEDAY ARE TO
HAVE A WEBSITE WHERE YOU CAN
TYPE EDITION ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE AND ALL
OF THIS STUFF
WILL BE FOR YOU.
OK, HERE'S A BIG THINGS YOU
HAVE TO LOOK AT FROM THESE
STANDARDS.
HERE'S THE BIG THINGS YOU HAVE
TO THINK ABOUT FROM OUR LOCAL
DESIGN GUIDELINES.
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT WILL
PROBABLY HAPPEN IN MY LIFETIME
BUT I THINK THAT THERE IS A LOT
OF ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT TO OUR
WEBSITE TO BE ABLE TO POINT
PEOPLE YOU KNOW, NO ONE'S GOING
TO PICK UP THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES AS A PRINTED BOOK.
RIGHT.
GO THROUGH IT AND LOOK AT
THINGS.
BUT IF WE CAN HELP THEM GET TO
WHERE THEY NEED TO GO, I THINK
THAT THAT WOULD BE A HUGE STEP
FORWARD AND THE CHECKLIST AND A
BUNCH OF CHECKLISTS FOR OUR
MOST COMMON PROJECT TYPES THOSE
THOSE ARE VERY HELPFUL TO
PEOPLE BUT THAT'S NOT REALLY
THE STANDARDS OR GUIDELINES.
RIGHT?
TYPICALLY.
SO WE'VE GOT TO COMBINE ALL
OF THESE I THINK THE WHAT THE
WEBSITE IS BUT A SEPARATE BIG
PROJECT.
YEAH.
MAYBE AFTER THIS.
YEAH YEAH.
I'M GOING TO GET THIS SO THAT
WHEN YOU'RE DOING THAT IT'S
IT'S USABLE.
YEAH THE CONTENT IS THERE
ALREADY.
I NEED TO SIT OUT AND PUT
LINKS.
YEAH I BE OUT ON OH NO THAT'S
THE DEEJAY'S OK SO THE DIGS ARE
DONE WITH G2 AND NOW WE'LL MOVE
ON TO H APPROVAL OF MINUTES
WE'VE GOT IT LOOKS LIKE
OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER THANKS TO
BRITNEY ALEXANDER FROM THE CITY
FOR THOSE AND TONIGHT'S AGENDA
IS ALWAYS APPRECIATED AND SO
NOW I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S
ANY CHANGES, DELETIONS,
INSERTIONS TO THE MINUTES.
>> OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTION THE MINUTES OR
OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER 24 ARE
APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
I IS REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
SHARE SOMETHING WITH THE BOARD
?
YES, COMMISSIONER SMITH, I
WOULD JUST AGAIN SAY THAT YOU
GUYS DO SUCH A GOOD JOB ON
THESE STAFF REPORTS.
IT REALLY DOES MAKE OUR JOB A
LOT EASIER AND I DON'T THINK
YOU GET ENOUGH CREDIT AND
PRAISE FOR THAT AND I'M JUST
VERY, VERY APPRECIATIVE.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH, WELL NOTED, COMMISSIONER
SMITH.
I THINK WE'RE ALL IN AGREEMENT
THERE.
YEAH.
AND THERE ARE SOME HISTORIC
COMMISSIONS THAT DON'T GET ANY
STAFF REPORTS AT ALL AND WE ALL
HAVE TO SIT THERE AND LOOK LIKE
WE WOULD LOOK IF THERE WERE NO
STAFF REPORTS.
AND SO AGAIN YEAH JUST SO
APPRECIATIVE OF THE GREAT WORK
.
>> OK, I THINK WE'RE MOVING ON
YEAH.
>> TO J ASSIGNMENTS.
>> WE'RE LOOKING FOR VOLUNTEERS
FOR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE ON
MONDAY JANUARY SIX TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
>> THAT'S A NEW MEETING ON THE
MONDAY.
OK ALL RIGHT THAT'S FOR THE
THURSDAY DECEMBER 12TH WAIT
SINCE THURSDAY DECEMBER 12TH
THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
>> IT'S THURSDAY JANUARY SIX
NINE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE GOT IT
RIGHT HERE.
OK YEAH
I CAN BE BACK UP IF NO
ONE ELSE CAN DO IT THE SIXTH I
COULD DO IT IT'S THE FIRST DAY
THE KIDS ARE BACK IN SCHOOL.
WHY DO YOU WE'RE BACK ON THE
SEVENTH BUT I WILL I CAN DO
THAT ON THE YEAH THAT WOULD BE
GREAT STEVEN DAVE THANK YOU
WONDERFUL.
OK KAY REPORTS FROM STAFF ARE
THERE ANY REPORTS FROM STAFF?
THE ONLY THING I HAVE WHICH I
MAY HAVE TOLD YOU LAST MONTH IS
THAT WE'RE EXPECTING THE OLD
FOURTH WARD SURVEY TO COME BACK
BY DECEMBER 31ST WITH REVISIONS
.
THAT'S A VERY GOOD L CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS IN
GENERAL?
>> NO, JUST SPECIFIC TO THIS
JUST IN GO.
>> YEAH.
YEAH, OK, HEARING NO CONCERNS.
WE'LL MOVE ON.
EVERYTHING'S IS GREAT WITH
EVERYONE SO GOOD.
OK, I SEE NO COMMUNICATIONS
THIS MONTH SO NOW I WILL
ADJOURN THE DECEMBER 12TH
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR HGC MEETING
AT NINE TWENTY SEVEN P.M. THANK
YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU